,report
0,"The structure of the armed forces is based on the Total Force concept, which recognizes that all elements of the structure—active duty military personnel, reservists, defense contractors, host nation military and civilian personnel, and DOD federal civilian employees—contribute to national defense. In recent years, federal civilian personnel have deployed along with military personnel to participate in Operations Joint Endeavor, conducted in the countries of Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, and Hungary; Joint G"
1,"uardian, in Kosovo; and Desert Storm, in Southwest Asia. Further, since the beginning of the Global War on Terrorism, the role of DOD’s federal civilian personnel has expanded to include participation in combat support functions in Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom. DOD relies on the federal civilian personnel it deploys to support a range of essential missions, including intelligence collection, criminal investigations, and weapon systems acquisition and maintenance. To ensure that its federal "
2,"civilian employees will deploy to combat zones and perform critical combat support functions in theater, DOD established the emergency-essential program in 1985. Under this program, DOD designates as “emergency-essential” those civilian employees whose positions are required to ensure the success of combat operations or the availability of combat-essential systems. DOD can deploy federal civilian employees either on a voluntary or involuntary basis to accomplish the DOD mission. DOD has established force he"
3,"alth protection and surveillance policies aimed at assessing and reducing or preventing health risks for its deployed federal civilian personnel; however, the department lacks procedures to ensure the components’ full implementation of its policies. In reviewing DOD federal civilian deployment records and other electronic documentation at selected component locations, we found that these components lacked documentation to show that they had fully complied with DOD’s force health protection and surveillance "
4,"policy requirements for some federal civilian personnel who deployed to Afghanistan and Iraq. As a larger issue, DOD’s policies did not require the centralized collection of data on the identity of its deployed civilians, their movements in theater, or their health status, further hindering its efforts to assess the overall effectiveness of its force health protection and surveillance capabilities. In August 2006, DOD issued a revised policy (to be effective in December 2006) that outlines procedures to add"
5,"ress its lack of centralized deployment and health-related data. However, the procedures are not comprehensive enough to ensure that DOD will be sufficiently informed of the extent to which its components fully comply with its requirements to monitor the health of deployed federal civilians. The DOD components included in our review lacked documentation to show that they always implemented force health protection and surveillance requirements for deployed federal civilians. These requirements include comple"
6,"ting (1) pre-deployment health assessments to ensure that only medically fit personnel deploy outside of the United States as part of a contingency or combat operation; (2) pre-deployment immunizations to address possible health threats in deployment locations; (3) pre-deployment medical screenings for tuberculosis and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV); and (4) post-deployment health assessments to document current health status, experiences, environmental exposures, and health concerns related to their wo"
7,"rk while deployed. DOD’s force health protection and surveillance policies require the components to assess the medical condition of federal civilians to ensure that only medically fit personnel deploy outside of the United States as part of a contingency or combat operation. The policies stipulate that all deploying civilian personnel are to complete pre-deployment health assessment forms within 30 days of their deployments, and health care providers are to review the assessments to confirm the civilians’ "
8,"health readiness status and identify any needs for additional clinical evaluations prior to their deployments. While the components that we included in our review had procedures in place that would enable them to implement DOD’s pre-deployment health assessment policies, it was not clear to what extent they had done so. Our review of deployment records and other documentation at the selected component locations found that these components lacked documentation to show that some federal civilian personnel who"
9," deployed to Afghanistan and Iraq had received the required pre-deployment health assessments. For those deployed federal civilians in our review, we found that, overall, a small number of deployment records (52 out of 3,771) were missing documentation to show that they had received their pre-deployment health assessments, as reflected in table 1. As shown in table 1, the federal civilian deployment records we included in our review showed wide variation by location regarding documentation of pre-deployment"
10," health assessments, ranging from less than 1 percent to more than 90 percent. On an aggregate component-level basis, at the Navy location in our review, we found that documentation was missing for 19 of the 52 records in our review. At the Air Force locations, documentation was missing for 29 of the 37 records in our review. In contrast, all three Army locations had hard copy or electronic records which indicated that almost all of their federal deployed civilians had received pre-deployment health assessm"
11,"ents. In addition to completing pre-deployment health assessment forms, DOD’s force health protection and surveillance policies stipulate that all DOD deploying federal civilians receive theater-specific immunizations to address possible health threats in deployment locations. Immunizations required for all civilian personnel who deploy to Afghanistan and Iraq include: hepatitis A (two-shot series); tetanus-diphtheria (within 10 years of deployment); smallpox (within 5 years of deployment); typhoid; and inf"
12,"luenza (within the last 12 months of deployment). As reflected in table 2, based on the deployment records maintained by the components at locations included in our review, the overall number of federal civilian deployment records lacking documentation of only one of the required immunizations for deployment to Afghanistan and Iraq was 285 out of 3,771. However, 3,313 of the records we reviewed were missing documentation of two or more immunizations. At the Army’s Fort Bliss, our review of its electronic de"
13,"ployment data determined that none of its deployed federal civilians had documentation to show that they had received immunizations. Officials at this location stated that they believed some immunizations had been given; however, they could not provide documentation as evidence of this. DOD policies require deploying federal civilians to receive certain screenings, such as for tuberculosis and HIV. Table 3 indicates that 55 of the 3,771 federal civilian deployment records included in our review were lacking"
14," documentation of the required tuberculosis screening; and approximately 35 were lacking documentation of HIV screenings prior to deployment. DOD’s force health protection and surveillance policies also require returning DOD federal civilian personnel to undergo post-deployment health assessments to document current health status, experiences, environmental exposures, and health concerns related to their work while deployed. The post-deployment process begins within 5 days of civilians’ redeployment from th"
15,"e theater to their home or demobilization processing stations. DOD’s policies require civilian personnel to complete a post- deployment assessment that includes questions on health and exposure concerns. A health care provider is to review each assessment and recommend additional clinical evaluation or treatment as needed. As reflected in table 4, our review of deployment records at the selected component locations found that these components lacked documentation to show that most deployed federal civilians"
16," (3,525 out of 3,771) who deployed to Afghanistan and Iraq had received the required post- deployment health assessments upon their return to the United States. Federal civilian deployment records lacking evidence of post-deployment health assessments ranged from 3 at the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Transatlantic Programs Center and Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, respectively, to 2,977 at Fort Bliss. Beyond the aforementioned weaknesses found in the selected components’ implementation of force health pro"
17,"tection and surveillance requirements for deploying federal civilians, as a larger issue, DOD lacks comprehensive, centralized data that would enable it to readily identify its deployed civilians, track their movements in theater, or monitor their health status, further hindering efforts to assess the overall effectiveness of its force health protection and surveillance capabilities. The Defense Manpower Data Center (DMDC) is responsible for maintaining the department’s centralized system that currently col"
18,"lects location-specific deployment information for military servicemembers, such as grid coordinates, latitude/longitude coordinates, or geographic location codes. However, DOD has not taken steps to similarly maintain centralized data on its deployed federal civilians. In addition, DOD had not provided guidance that would require its components to track and report data on the locations and movements of DOD federal civilian personnel in theaters of operations. In the absence of such a requirement, each DOD "
19,"component collected and reported aggregated data that identified the total number of DOD federal civilian personnel in a theater of operations, but each lacked the ability to gather, analyze, and report information that could be used to specifically identify individuals at risk for occupational and environmental exposures during deployments. In previously reporting on the military services’ implementation of DOD’s force health protection and surveillance policies in 2003, we highlighted the importance of kn"
20,"owing the identity of servicemembers who deployed during a given operation and of tracking their movements within the theater of operations as major elements of a military medical surveillance system. We further noted the Institute of Medicine’s finding that documentation on the location of units and individuals during a given deployment is important for epidemiological studies and appropriate medical care during and after deployments. For example, this information allows epidemiologists to study the incide"
21,"nces of disease patterns across populations of deployed servicemembers who may have been exposed to diseases and hazards within the theater, and health care professionals to treat their medical problems appropriately. Without location-specific information for all of its deployed federal civilians and centralized data in its department-level system, DOD limits its ability to ensure that sufficient and appropriate consideration will also be given to addressing the health care concerns of these individuals. DO"
22,"D also had not provided guidance to the components that would require them to forward completed deployment health assessments for all federal civilians to the Army Medical Surveillance Activity (AMSA), where these assessments are suppose to be archived in the Defense Medical Surveillance System (DMSS), integrated with other historical and current data on personnel and deployments, and used to monitor the health of personnel who participate in deployments. The overall success of deployment force protection a"
23,"nd surveillance efforts, in large measure, depends on the completeness of health assessment data. The lack of such data may hamper DOD’s ability to intervene in a timely manner to address health care problems that may arise from DOD federal civilian deployments to overseas locations in support of contingency operations. With increases in the department’s use of federal civilian personnel to support military operations, DOD officials have recognized the need for more complete and centralized location-specifi"
24,"c deployment information and deployment-related health information on its deployed federal civilians. In this regard, in August 2006, the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness issued revised policy and program guidance that generally addressed the shortcomings in DOD’s force health protection and surveillance capabilities. The revised policy and guidance, scheduled to become effective in December 2006, require the components within 3 years, to electronically report (at least w"
25,"eekly) to DMDC, location-specific data for all deployed personnel, including federal civilians. In addition, the policy and guidance require the components to submit all completed health assessment forms to the AMSA for inclusion in DMSS. Nonetheless, DOD’s new policy is not comprehensive enough to ensure that the department will be sufficiently informed of the extent to which its components are complying with existing health protection requirements for its deployed federal civilians. Although the policy re"
26,"quires DOD components to report certain location-specific and health data for all of their deployed personnel, including federal civilians, it does not establish an oversight and quality assurance mechanism for assessing and ensuring the full implementation of the force health protection and surveillance requirements by all DOD components that our prior work has identified as essential in providing care to military personnel. In a September 2003 report on the Army’s and the Air Force’s compliance with force"
27," health protection policy for servicemembers, we noted that neither of the military services had fully complied with DOD’s force health protection and surveillance policies for many active duty servicemembers, including the policies requiring that servicemembers be assessed before and after deploying overseas and receive certain immunizations. We further noted that DOD, at that time, did not have an effective quality assurance program to provide oversight of, and ensure compliance with, the department’s for"
28,"ce health protection and surveillance requirements, and that the lack of such a system was a major cause of the high rate of noncompliance that we identified at the units we visited. In response to a legislative mandate and our recommendation, DOD established an oversight mechanism to evaluate the success of its force health protection and surveillance policies in ensuring that servicemembers received pre- and post-deployment medical examinations and that record-keeping requirements were met. This oversight"
29," mechanism included (1) periodic site visits jointly conducted with staff from the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health Affairs and staff from the military services to assess compliance with the deployment health requirements, (2) periodic reports from the services on their quality assurance programs, and (3) periodic reports from AMSA on health assessment data maintained in the centralized database. Until the department provides a similar oversight and quality assurance mechanism for its deployed f"
30,"ederal civilians, it will not be effectively positioned to ensure compliance with its policies, or ensure the health care and protection of these individuals as they continue to support contingency operations. DOD has established medical treatment policies that cover its federal civilians while they are deployed to support contingency operations in Afghanistan and Iraq, and available workers’ compensation claims we reviewed confirmed that those deployed federal civilians received care consistent with the po"
31,"licies. These policies state that DOD federal civilians who require treatment for injuries or diseases sustained during overseas hostilities may be provided care under the DOD military health system. Thus, DOD’s deployed federal civilians may receive care through the military’s treatment facilities. As shown in figure 1, DOD’s military health system provides four levels of medical care to personnel who are injured or become ill while deployed. Specifically, medical treatment during a military contingency be"
32,"gins with level one care, which consists of basic first aid and emergency care at a unit in the theater of operation. The treatment then moves to a second level of care, where, at an Aid station, injured or ill personnel are examined and evaluated to determine their priority for continued movement outside of the theater of operation and to the next (third) level of care. At the third level, injured or ill personnel are treated in a medical installation staffed and equipped for resuscitation, surgery, and po"
33,"stoperative care. Finally, at the fourth level of care, which occurs far from the theater of operation, injured or ill personnel are treated in a hospital staffed and equipped for definitive care. Injured or ill DOD federal civilians deployed in support of contingency operations in Afghanistan and Iraq who require level four medical care are transported to DOD’s Regional Medical Center in Landstuhl, Germany. Injured or ill DOD federal civilians who cannot be returned to duty in theater are evacuated to the "
34,"United States for continuation of medical care. In these cases (or where previously deployed federal civilians later identify injuries or diseases and subsequently request medical treatment), DOD’s policy provides for its federal civilians who require treatment for deployment-related injuries or occupational illnesses to receive medical care through either the military’s medical treatment facilities or civilian facilities. The policy stipulates that federal civilians who are injured or become ill as a resul"
35,"t of their deployment must file a Federal Employees’ Compensation Act (FECA) claim with DOD, which then files a claim with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs (OWCP). The Department of Labor’s OWCP is responsible for making a decision to award or deny medical benefits. OWCP must establish—based on evidence provided by the DOD civilian—that the employee is eligible for workers’ compensation benefits due to the injury or disease for which the benefits are claimed. To obtain bene"
36,"fits under FECA, DOD federal civilians must show that (1) they were employed by the U.S. government, (2) they were injured (exposed) in the workplace, (3) they have filed a claim in a timely manner, (4) they have a disabling medical condition, and (5) there is a causal link between their medical condition and the injury or exposure. Three avenues of appeal are provided for DOD federal civilians in the event that the initial claim is denied: (1) reconsideration by an OWCP claims examiner, (2) a hearing or re"
37,"view of the written record by OWCP’s Branch of Hearings and Review, and (3) a review by the Employees’ Compensation Appeals Board. DOD’s medical treatment process and the OWCP’s claims process are shown in figure 2. Overall, the claims we reviewed showed that the DOD federal civilians who sustained injuries or diseases while deployed had received care that was consistent with DOD’s medical treatment policies. Specifically, in reviewing a sample of seven workers’ compensation claims (out of a universe of 83)"
38," filed under the Federal Employees’ Compensation Act by DOD federal civilians who deployed to Iraq, we found that in three cases where care was initiated in theater the affected federal civilians had received treatment in accordance with DOD’s policies. For example, in one case, a deployed federal civilian was treated for traumatic injuries at a hospital outside of the theater of operation and could not return to duty in theater because of the severity of the injuries sustained. The civilian was evacuated t"
39,"o the United States and received medical care through several of the military’s medical treatment facilities as well as through a civilian facility. Further, in all seven claims that we reviewed, DOD federal civilians who requested medical care after returning to the United States, had, in accordance with DOD’s policy, received initial medical examinations and/or treatment for their deployment-related injuries or illnesses and diseases through either military or civilian treatment facilities. While OWCP has"
40," primary responsibility for processing and approving all FECA claims for medical benefits, as noted earlier, the scope of our review did not include assessing actions taken by the Department of Labor’s OWCP in further processing workers’ compensation claims for injured or ill civilians and authorizing continuation of medical care once their claims were submitted for review. DOD provides a number of special pays and benefits to its federal civilian personnel who deploy in support of contingency operations, w"
41,"hich are generally different in type and in amount from those provided to deployed military personnel. Both groups receive special pays, but the types and amounts differ. In our modeled scenarios, the overall amounts of compensation, which include special pays, were higher for DOD federal civilian personnel than for military personnel. DOD federal civilian personnel also receive different types and amounts of disability benefits, depending on specific program provisions and individual circumstances. Further"
42,", survivors of deceased DOD federal civilian and military personnel generally receive comparable types of cash survivor benefits—lump sum, recurring, or both—but benefit amounts differ for the two groups. Survivors of DOD federal civilian personnel, however, almost always receive lower noncash benefits than military personnel. DOD federal civilian and military personnel are both eligible to receive special pays to compensate them for the conditions of deployment. As shown in table 5, some of the types of sp"
43,"ecial pays are similar for both DOD federal civilian and military personnel, although the amounts paid to each group differ. Other special pays were unique to each group. DOD federal civilian and military personnel deployed to posts with unusually difficult or unhealthful conditions or severe physical hardships are authorized a similar type of post (hardship) differential. In addition, danger pay is granted to both groups serving at a post where civil insurrection, civil war, or war-like conditions exist. I"
44,"n this context, DOD federal civilian personnel who are deployed to Afghanistan and Iraq are eligible to receive post (hardship) differential and danger pay, each equivalent to 35 percent of their base salaries. In contrast, military personnel receive monthly pays of $100 for hardship duty and $225 for imminent danger. However, some special pays are unique to each group. For example, to partially reimburse those who are involuntarily separated from their dependents, military personnel are eligible to receive"
45," a family separation allowance that is not available to deployed DOD federal civilian personnel. Additionally, unlike DOD federal civilian personnel, military personnel also receive a combat zone tax exclusion while deployed to Afghanistan and Iraq that excludes certain income from federal taxes. DOD federal civilian personnel, by contrast, are eligible for a variety of premium pays, such as overtime and night differential, that are not available to military personnel. Although DOD federal civilian and mili"
46,"tary personnel generally receive various special pays to compensate them for conditions of deployment, in certain scenarios that we modeled, the overall amounts of compensation payments were higher for DOD federal civilian personnel than for military personnel, as illustrated in tables 6 and 7. In the event of sustaining an injury while deployed, DOD federal civilian and military personnel are eligible to receive two broad categories of disability benefits—disability compensation and disability retirement. "
47,"However, the benefits applicable to each group vary by type and amount, depending on specific program provisions and individual circumstances. Within these broad categories, there are three main types of disability: (1) temporary disability, (2) permanent partial disability, and (3) permanent total disability. Both DOD federal civilian and military personnel who are injured in the line of duty are eligible to receive continuation of their pay during the initial period of treatment and may be eligible to rec"
48,"eive recurring payments for lost wages. However, the payments to DOD federal civilian personnel are based on their salaries and whether the employee has any dependents, regardless of the number, which can vary significantly, whereas disability compensation payments made by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to injured military personnel are based on the severity of the injury and their number of dependents. DOD federal civilian personnel are eligible to receive continuation of pay (salary) for up to 45"
49," days, followed by a recurring payment for wage loss which is based on a percentage of salary and whether they have any dependents, up to a cap. In contrast, military personnel receive continuation of pay of their salary for generally no longer than a year, followed by a recurring VA disability compensation payment for wage loss that is based on the degree of disability and their number of dependents, and temporary DOD disability retirement for up to 5 years. Appendix II provides additional information on t"
50,"emporary disability compensation payments for federal civilian and military personnel. To illustrate the way in which the degree of impairment and an individual’s salary can affect temporary disability compensation, in our April 2006 review, we compared the disability benefits available to military personnel with those available to comparable civilian public safety officers at the federal, state, and local levels. We found that VA compensation payments for military personnel were based on a disability ratin"
51,"g, regardless of salary level; in contrast, compensation payments for civilian public safety officers were based on salary level, regardless of disability level. Thus, for an individual with severe injuries and relatively low wages, VA compensation payments for military personnel were generally higher than those of the civilian public safety officers included in the reviews. However, if an individual had less severe injuries and high wages, VA compensation payments for military personnel were generally lowe"
52,"r than those of the civilian public safety officers included in the review. When a partial disability is determined to be permanent, DOD federal civilian and military personnel can continue to receive recurring compensation payments. For DOD federal civilian personnel, these payments are provided for the remainder of life as long as the impairment persists, and can vary significantly depending upon the salary of the individual and the existence of dependents. Military personnel are also eligible to receive "
53,"recurring VA disability compensation payments for the remainder of their lives, and these payments are based on the severity of the servicemember’s injury and the number of dependents. In addition, both groups are eligible to receive additional compensation payments beyond the recurring payments just discussed, based on the type of impairment. DOD federal civilians with permanent partial disabilities receive a schedule of payments based on the specific type of impairment (sometimes referred to as a schedule"
54," award). Some impairments may result in benefits for a few weeks, while others may result in benefits for several years. Similarly, military personnel receive special monthly VA compensation payments depending on the specific type and degree of impairment. Appendix II provides more detailed information on permanent partial disability compensation payments for DOD federal civilian and military personnel. Our April 2006 review compared the compensation benefits available to military personnel with those avail"
55,"able to federal civilian public safety officers, among others, using several scenarios. Our analysis showed that when able to return to duty, military personnel often received a greater amount of compensation benefits over a lifetime than did civilians, even when the monthly benefit payment was substantially lower and receipt of benefits was delayed for several years. Permanent partial disabilities that prevent civilian and military personnel from returning to duty in their current jobs may entitle them to "
56,"receive disability retirement benefits based on a percentage of salary in addition to compensation benefits; however, the eligibility criteria and benefit amounts differ. Under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS), DOD federal civilian personnel must be unfit for duty and have 5 years of service to qualify for disability retirement benefits. Under the Federal Employees’ Retirement System (FERS), civilian personnel must be unfit for duty and have 18 months of service. DOD federal civilian personnel mus"
57,"t elect either compensation benefits or disability retirement. Military personnel who are unfit for duty are eligible for DOD disability retirement benefits if they have a disability rating of 30 percent or more regardless of length of service, or if they have 20 years or more of service regardless of disability rating. The amount of the DOD disability retirement payment is offset dollar for dollar, however, by the amount of the monthly VA disability compensation payment unless they have at least 20 years o"
58,"f service and a disability rating of 50 percent or more, or combat-related disabilities. Our April 2006 review of disability benefits showed that when military personnel and federal civilian public safety officers were unable to return to duty due to a permanent partial disability, such as a leg amputation, the combined compensation and retirement benefits provided to the military personnel over a lifetime were sometimes more, and sometimes less, than the combined benefits provided to civilian public safety"
59," officers. When an injury is severe enough to be deemed permanent and total, DOD federal civilian and military personnel may receive similar types of benefits such as disability compensation and retirement payments; however, the amounts paid to each group vary. For civilian personnel, the monthly payment amounts for total disability are generally similar to those for permanent partial disability described earlier, but unlike with permanent partial disabilities, the payments do not take into account any wage"
60," earning capacity. Both groups are eligible to receive additional compensation payments beyond the recurring payments that are similar to those for permanent partial disability. DOD federal civilians with permanent disabilities receive a schedule award based on the specific type of impairment. In addition, DOD federal civilian personnel may be eligible for an additional attendant allowance—up to $1,500 per month during 2006—if such care is needed. Military personnel receive special monthly VA compensation p"
61,"ayments for particularly severe injuries, such as amputations, blindness, or other loss of use of organs and extremities. The payments are designed to account for attendant care or other special needs deriving from the disability. In addition to disability compensation, both DOD federal civilian and military personnel have access to disability retirement benefits for permanent total disabilities. The provisions for election and offset of disability compensation and disability retirement benefits in cases of"
62, permanent total disability are similar to provisions in cases of permanent partial disability discussed earlier. Another benefit available to DOD federal civilian and military personnel with permanent total disabilities is Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI). SSDI benefits are available to individuals who incur a physical or mental impairment that prevents them from performing substantial gainful activity and that is expected to last at least 1 year or to result in death. The benefit is based on th
63,"e employee’s earnings history and lifetime contributions to Social Security; therefore, the benefit amounts vary widely among individuals. DOD federal civilian personnel covered by FERS and military personnel pay into Social Security and thus may be eligible to receive SSDI benefits. The maximum benefit to both groups in 2006 was $2,053 per month. However, DOD federal civilian personnel must choose between either compensation payments and SSDI benefits or have their disability retirement payments reduced wh"
64,"en receiving SSDI benefits. Survivors of deceased DOD federal civilian and military personnel generally receive similar types of cash survivor benefits—either as a lump sum, a recurring payment, or both—through comparable sources. However, the benefit amounts generally differ for each group. Survivors of DOD federal civilian and military personnel also receive noncash benefits that differ in type and amounts. As shown in table 8, survivors of deceased DOD federal civilian and military personnel both receive"
65," lump sum benefits in the form of Social Security, a death gratuity, burial expenses, and life insurance. Social Security provides $255 upon the death of a DOD federal civilian employee or military member. In addition, survivors of deceased DOD federal civilian personnel receive a death gratuity of up to $10,000, while survivors of deceased military personnel receive $100,000. The payment for funeral expenses provided to survivors of deceased DOD federal civilian personnel can be as high as $800, plus $200 "
66,"for costs associated with terminating employee status, while it can be $7,700 for deceased military personnel. Life insurance is another common source of benefits for the survivors of many deceased civilian and military personnel. Survivors of deceased federal civilian personnel receive a payment equal to the civilian’s rate of basic pay, rounded to the nearest thousand, plus $2,000. Military personnel automatically are insured as part of the Servicemembers’ Group Life Insurance for up to $400,000, unless t"
67,"hey elect less or no coverage. DOD federal civilian employees also receive a survivor benefit in their retirement plans. Survivors of deceased DOD federal civilian and military personnel are also eligible for recurring benefits, some of which are specific to each group, as shown in table 9. Survivors of both deceased DOD federal civilian and military personnel may be eligible to receive recurring Social Security payments based on the deceased individual’s earnings in a covered period. However, other types o"
68,"f recurring payments are specific to either civilian or military personnel. For example, survivors of DOD federal civilian personnel may receive recurring payments from a retirement plan or workers’ compensation if the death occurred while in the line of duty. Survivors of deceased military personnel also receive payments through the Survivor Benefit Plan, Dependency and Indemnity Compensation, or both. In addition to lump sum and recurring benefits, survivors of deceased DOD federal civilians and military "
69,"personnel receive noncash benefits. As shown in table 10, survivors of deceased military personnel receive more noncash benefits than do those of deceased DOD federal civilian personnel, with few benefits being comparable in type. For example, eligible survivors of military personnel who die while on active duty obtain benefits such as rent-free government housing or tax- free housing allowances for up to 365 days, relocation assistance, and lifetime access to commissaries and exchanges that are not availab"
70,"le to civilian personnel who die in the line-of-duty. However, survivors of both deceased DOD federal civilian and military personnel do continue to receive health insurance that is wholly or partially subsidized. As DOD’s federal civilian employees assume an expanding role in helping the department support its contingency operations overseas, the need for attention to the policies and benefits that affect the health and welfare of these individuals becomes increasingly significant. DOD currently has import"
71,"ant policies in place that relate to the deployment of its federal civilians. However, it lacks an adequate oversight and quality assurance mechanism to ensure compliance and quality of service. Thus, not all of its policies—such as those that define the department’s requirements for force health protection and surveillance—are being fully implemented by the DOD components. Until DOD improves its oversight in this area, it will jeopardize its ability to be effectively informed of the extent to which its fed"
72,"eral civilians are screened and deemed medically fit to deploy in support of contingency operations; deployed civilian personnel receive needed immunizations to counter theater disease threats; and what medical follow-up attention federal civilians require for health problems or concerns that may arise following their deployment. To strengthen DOD’s force health protection and surveillance for its federal civilian personnel who deploy in support of contingency operations, we recommend that the Secretary of "
73,"Defense direct the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness to establish an oversight and quality assurance mechanism to ensure that all components fully comply with its requirements. In written comments on a draft of this report, DOD partially concurred with our recommendation. The department acknowledged the necessity for all deployed civilians to receive required medical assessments and immunizations, and that documentation must be available in every instance. The department o"
74,"utlined several steps it intends to take to determine appropriate implementation of our recommendation. Specifically, the department stated that it has written and coordinated a new DOD instruction, scheduled to become effective before the end of 2006, that establishes a comprehensive DOD force health protection quality assurance program that will apply to DOD civilian personnel accompanying deploying military forces. While DOD’s response is encouraging, we remain concerned that the department’s description"
75," of the actions it plans to take to assess the components’ compliance with its requirements lacks sufficient detail. DOD was unable to provide us with a copy of the new instruction; thus, we could not evaluate the comprehensiveness of its new force health protection quality assurance program or determine whether the program identifies specific actions the department plans to take for assessing and ensuring the full implementation of the force health protection and surveillance requirements by all DOD compon"
76,"ents. DOD also stated that proposed revisions to its directives and instructions that address the planning, preparation, and utilization of DOD civilians include, among other things, annual assessments for compliance with pre-and post-deployment medical assessment requirements. However, the department did not describe what actions, if any, it plans to take to ensure that it will be sufficiently informed of the extent to which its components are complying with existing health protection requirements for its "
77,"deployed federal civilians. In the absence of more specific details on its planned actions, we continue to emphasize the department’s need for a comprehensive oversight and quality assurance mechanism without which it will not be effectively positioned to ensure compliance with its policies, or ensure the health care and protection of its deployed federal civilians as they continue to support contingency operations. In addition to its comments on our recommendation, the department took issue with some of ou"
78,"r specific findings. DOD questioned our findings that in many cases DOD components were unable to produce documentation confirming that deployed federal civilians had received necessary pre- or post-deployment medical assessments, or immunizations. The department stated that DOD activities, particularly regarding the Army Corps of Engineers, Transatlantic Programs Center (TPC), had determined that documentation did exist for many records included in our review, thus raising reservations about our findings. "
79,"In particular, the department stated that the number (and percent) of records missing two or more immunizations that we reported for TPC was inaccurate. It stated that based on TPC’s review of the specific documentation that we used to support our findings, we had actually identified 69 records (54.3 percent) as missing two or more immunizations, rather than 85 (66.9 percent) noted in our draft report. We disagree. TPC overlooked 16 records included in our review that lacked documentation of any immunizatio"
80,"ns. Moreover, as we noted in our report, to provide assurances that the results of our review of hard copy deployment records at the selected component locations were accurate, we requested that each component’s designated medical personnel reexamine those deployment records that we determined were missing required health documentation. We then adjusted our results in those instances where documentation was subsequently provided. To provide additional assurances regarding our determinations, we requested th"
81,"at each component’s designated medical personnel review and sign the data collection instrument that we used to collect deployment health information from each individual civilian’s deployment record attesting to our conclusions regarding the existence of health assessment or immunization documentation. DOD also stated that we inappropriately mixed discussion of Veterans Affairs and DOD benefits without distinguishing between the two. However, our report appropriately discusses two broad categories of “gove"
82,"rnment-provided” benefits: (1) those provided by DOD and (2) those provided by VA. Nonetheless, to further clarify this section of our report, we added “VA” and “DOD” to our discussions of disability compensation and retirement benefits for military personnel. DOD also stated that our discussion of military disability benefits presented incorrect information in many cases, indicating that our statements that compensation payments for military personnel were based on a disability rating, regardless of salary"
83," level is only true with regard to VA disability benefits. DOD also stated that DOD disability payments do, in fact, take into account salary level, and that if a former member is entitled to both, there is an offsetting mechanism. We agree. As we state in our report, under veterans’ compensation programs, benefits typically include cash payments to replace a percentage of the individual’s loss in wages while injured and unable to work. We also state that disability retirement benefits for military personne"
84,"l are based on a percent of salary in addition to compensation benefits, and that the amount of retirement payment is offset dollar for dollar by the amount of monthly compensation payment unless military personnel have at least 20 years of service and a disability rating of 50 percent or more, or have combat-related disabilities. Further, DOD submitted detailed comments related to our analysis of special pays and benefits provided to deployed DOD federal civilian and military personnel. In particular, the "
85,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the contra"
86,"ry, our report did discuss this limitation, and as is the case with any modeled scenarios based on certain assumptions, some of the factors with the potential to affect the overall outcomes of our comparisons could not be included because of, as DOD pointed out, the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured. It is partly for this reason that we acknowledged in the report that we do not take a position on the adequacy or appropriateness of the special pays an"
87,"d benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel. DOD also requested that we clearly acknowledge the fundamental differences between the military and civilians systems. We believe that we have done so. As we noted in our report, we did not make direct analytical comparisons between compensation and benefits offered by DOD to deployed federal civilian and military personnel because such comparisons must account for the demands of the military service, such as involuntary relocation, frequen"
88,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Appropri"
89,"ations; and the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, House Committee on Appropriations; and other interested congressional parties. We are also sending copies to the Secretary of Defense and the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness. We will make copies available to other interested parties upon request. Copies of this report will also be made available at no charge on GAO’s Web site at http://www.gao.gov. Should you or your staff have any questions about this repo"
90,"rt, please contact me at (202) 512-6304 or by e-mail at melvinv@gao.gov. Contact points for our Offices of Congressional Relations and Public Affairs may be found on the last page of this report. Key contributors to this report are listed in appendix IV. To assess the extent to which DOD has established force health protection and surveillance policies for DOD federal civilians who deploy outside of the United States in support of contingency operations, and how the components (military services and the Def"
91,"ense Contract Management Agency) have implemented those policies, we reviewed pertinent force health protection and surveillance policies and discussed these policies with the following offices or commands: U.S. Central Command; Joint Chiefs of Staff, Manpower and Personnel; Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (including the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs, Deployment Health Support Directorate; Civilian Personnel Policy; and Civilian Personnel Management Services); the "
92,"Surgeons General for the Army, Navy, and Air Force; and the Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA). Our review focused on DOD federal civilians who (1) deployed to Afghanistan or Iraq for 30 continuous days or more between June 1, 2003, and September 30, 2005, and (2) returned to the United States by February 28, 2006. Because DOD had difficulty identifying the total number of federal civilians who deployed to Afghanistan or Iraq, we assessed the implementation of DOD’s deployment health requirements at "
93,"eight component locations that were selected using a number of approaches. Given that DOD components have flexibility in where they conduct deployment processing, we selected locations for our review accordingly. Specifically, the Army uses a centralized approach, deploying its federal civilians at three primary locations; therefore, we selected all three locations for review. By contrast, the Navy and Air Force use a decentralized approach, deploying their federal civilians from their home stations. For th"
94,"ese components, we selected five locations based on data that indicated that these locations had deployed the largest numbers of federal civilian personnel. DCMA was included in our review because it had deployed the largest number of federal civilian personnel compared to other defense agencies. DCMA has an informal agreement with the Army to process its federal civilians through two of the Army’s three deployment locations. Therefore, DCMA federal civilian deployment data in this report are included in th"
95,"e Army results to the extent that DCMA federal civilian deployments were documented at the two relevant Army locations. At all eight component locations, we reviewed either all available hard copy or electronic deployment records, or in one instance, a sample of the deployment records for deployed federal civilian personnel who met our criteria above. Table 11 shows the locations included in our review and the number of deployment records reviewed at each location. In total, we reviewed 3,431 hard copy and "
96,"automated records for federal civilian personnel who deployed to Afghanistan and Iraq. Specifically, we reviewed hard copies of deployment records for 454 (out of a reported 822) federal civilian personnel at seven component locations and automated deployment records for 2,977 (out of the reported 2,977) federal civilian personnel at the other location where all deployment records were being maintained electronically. The results of deployment record reviews, however, could not be projected beyond the sampl"
97,"es to all DOD federal civilians who had deployed during this time frame. To facilitate our review of federal civilian deployment records at the selected component locations, we developed a data collection instrument to review and collect deployment health information from each individual civilian’s deployment record. For federal civilians in our review at each location, we reviewed deployment records for documentation that the following force health protection and surveillance policy requirements were met: "
98,"Pre-and post-deployment health assessments; Tuberculosis screening test (within 1 year of deployment); Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) screening test; Pre-deployment immunizations: hepatitis A (first and second course); influenza (within 1 year of deployment); tetanus-diphtheria (within 10 years of deployment); typhoid; and smallpox (within 5 years of deployment) After our review of hard copy deployment records, we requested each component’s medical personnel to reexamine those hard copy deployment recor"
99,"ds that were missing required health documentation, and we adjusted our results where documentation was subsequently provided. We also requested and queried other documentation from information systems used by the components to capture deployment and related health information, making adjustments to our results where documentation was found in the systems. These data sources included the Army’s Medical Protection System (MEDPROS), the Army’s medical database (MedBase), the Air Force’s Preventive Health Asse"
100,"ssment and Individual Medical Readiness (PIMR) system and its Comprehensive Immunization Tracking Application (CITA), DOD’s Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System (DEERS), which is used by the Navy, and the Army Medical Surveillance Activity’s Defense Medical Surveillance System (DMSS). At the Army’s Fort Benning, we created a sampling frame (i.e., total population) of records for 606 federal civilian deployments between June 1, 2003, and September 30, 2005. Our study population was limited to DOD "
101,"federal civilians who deployed to Afghanistan or Iraq. We then drew a stratified random sample of 288 deployment records and stratified the sample to isolate potential duplicate deployment records for the same federal civilian. We found two duplicate records and removed them from both the population and sample, as shown in table 12. We also removed another 14 deployment records from our sample because those DOD federal civilians had been deployed to locations other than Afghanistan or Iraq, and were not eli"
102,"gible for the duty population. In addition, we removed another 13 deployment records that were originally selected as potential replacement records; however, we found that those replacements were not needed. Ultimately, we identified 238 in-scope responses, for a weighted response rate of 87 percent. Each sampled record was subsequently weighted in the analysis to represent all DOD federal civilians deployed to Afghanistan or Iraq. The disposition of the federal civilian deployment records we reviewed at Fo"
103,"rt Benning are summarized in the following table: Our probability sample is only one of a large number of samples that we might have drawn. Because each sample could have provided different estimates, we express our confidence in the precision of our particular sample’s results as a 95 percent confidence interval. This is the interval that would contain the actual population value for 95 percent of the Fort Benning, Ga., samples we could have drawn. All percentage estimates from our sample have margins of e"
104,"rror (that is, widths of confidence intervals) of plus or minus 5 percentage points or less, at the 95 percent confidence level, unless otherwise noted. We took steps to assess the reliability of DOD federal civilian deployment and health data for the purposes of this review, including consideration of issues such as the completeness of the data from the respective information systems’ program managers and administrators. We also examined whether the data were subjected to quality control measures such as p"
105,"eriodic testing of the data against deployment records to ensure the accuracy and reliability of the data. In addition, we reviewed existing documentation related to the data sources and interviewed knowledgeable agency officials about the data. We did not find these deployment and health data to be sufficiently reliable for (1) identifying the universe of DOD federal civilian deployments or (2) use as the sole source for reviewing the health and immunization information for all DOD federal civilian deploym"
106,"ents, but we found the information systems to be sufficiently reliable when used as one of several sources in our review of deployment records. In those instances where we did not find a deployment health assessment or immunization in either the deployment records or in the electronic data systems, we concluded that the health assessment or immunization was not documented. To determine the extent to which DOD has established and the components have implemented medical treatment policies for DOD federal civi"
107,"lians who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civilians who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
108,"ewed a non-probability sample of claims to assess the components’ processes and procedures for implementing DOD’s medical treatment policies across a range of civilian casualties including injuries, physical and mental illnesses, and diseases. The scope of our review did not extend to the Department of Labor’s claims review process. To identify special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilians who deployed in support of contingency operations and to assess the extent that special pays and benefits"
109," differ from those provided to deployed active duty military personnel, we examined major statutory provisions for special pays, disability and death benefits for federal civilians and military personnel, including relevant chapters of Title 5 of the U.S. Code governing federal civilian personnel management; relevant chapters of Title 10 of the U.S. Code governing armed forces personnel management; Section 112 of Title 26 of the U.S. Code governing combat zone tax exemption; relevant chapters of Title 37 of"
110," the U.S. Code governing pay and allowances for the uniformed services; relevant chapters of Title 38 of the U.S. Code governing veterans’ benefits; relevant provisions of applicable public laws governing military and civilian pay and benefits; applicable directives and instructions related to active duty military and DOD federal civilian benefits and entitlements; DOD financial management regulations; Department of State regulations; and prior GAO reports. In addition, we discussed the statutes and guidanc"
111,"e with cognizant officials of the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, military services’ headquarters, and the Defense Contract Management Agency involved with the administration of active duty and federal civilian personnel entitlements. We did not perform a comprehensive review of all compensation—comprised of a myriad of pays and benefits—offered to active duty military and federal civilian personnel in general. Our analysis focused on selected elements of compensation s"
112,"uch as special pays (e.g., hostile fire/imminent danger pay). Also, we did not make direct analytical comparisons between compensation and benefits offered by DOD to deployed federal civilian and military personnel because such comparisons must account for the demands of the military service, such as involuntary relocation, frequent and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. After reviewing documents and interviewing officials, we then compiled and analyzed the information on the types a"
113,"nd amounts of special pays and benefits available to active duty military and DOD federal civilian personnel who deployed to Afghanistan or Iraq. We interviewed DOD officials to discuss the basis for any differences in compensation. In addition, to illustrate how special pays affect overall compensation provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel, we modeled scenarios for both groups using similar circumstances, such as length of deployment, pay grades, special pays (e.g., post differential pay,"
114," danger pay, overtime pay, family separation allowance, basic allowance for housing, basic allowance for subsistence), and duty location. Through discussions with senior DOD officials, we made an assumption that deployed DOD federal civilians worked 30 hours of overtime per week. For deployed DOD federal civilians, we subtracted a contribution of $15,000 to the Thrift Savings Plan (TSP) to obtain the adjusted gross income. We assumed that DOD federal civilians, temporarily at a higher tax bracket, would tak"
115,"e maximum advantage of the opportunity to defer taxes. We assumed that the military personnel would contribute a smaller percentage of pay, 5 percent of gross income, to TSP. We made this assumption because much of the military pay was not subject to federal taxes, which removes the incentive to contribute to TSP, and because unlike for federal workers, military TSP does not have a matching component. For military personnel, we also deducted the amount of pay not subject to taxes due to the combat zone excl"
116,"usion, family separation allowance, basic allowance for subsistence, and basic allowance for housing. Using these assumptions, we generated an adjusted gross income and used that as input into a commercial tax program, Turbo Tax, to obtain federal taxes owed. We assumed that both DOD federal civilian and military personnel were married, filing jointly, with a spouse that earned no income. We assumed that the family had two children and qualified for two child tax credits, and the Earned Income Tax Credit, i"
117,"f at that income level. This resulted in four exemptions and a standard deduction of $10,000 in 2005. For purposes of validation, we repeated this exercise using an alternate tax program, Tax Cut, and obtained identical results. We conducted our review from March 2006 to August 2006 in accordance with generally accepted government auditing standards. Both DOD federal civilian and military personnel are eligible to receive disability benefits when they sustain a line-of-duty injury. However, these benefits v"
118,"ary in amount. Table 13 shows the temporary disability benefits available to eligible DOD federal civilian and military personnel. As table 13 shows, DOD federal civilians who are injured in the line of duty are eligible to receive continuation of their salary up to 45 days, followed by a recurring payment for wage loss that is based on a percentage of their salary and the existence of dependents, up to a cap. In contrast, military personnel receive continuation of their salaries for generally no longer tha"
119,"n a year, followed by a recurring payment for wage loss, which is based on the degree of disability and their number of dependents, and temporary retirement pay based on salary for up to 5 years. When a partial disability is determined to be permanent, both DOD federal civilians and military personnel are eligible to continue receiving recurring compensation payments, but again, the amounts of these benefits vary, as shown in table 14. As table 14 shows, DOD federal civilian personnel with permanent partial"
120," disabilities receive payments based on salary and dependents while military personnel receive payments based on the severity of the injury and their number of dependents, as long as the condition persists. In addition to the contact named above, Sandra Burrell, Assistant Director; William Bates; Dr. Benjamin Bolitzer; Alissa Czyz; George Duncan; Steve Fox; Dawn Godfrey; Nancy Hess; Lynn Johnson; Barbara Joyce; Dr. Ronald La Due Lake; William Mathers; Paul Newton; Dr. Charles Perdue; Jason Porter; Julia Mat"
121,ta; Susan Tieh; John Townes; and Dr. Monica Wolford made key contributions to this report.
122,"Most income derived from private sector business activity in the United States is subject to federal corporate income tax, the individual income tax, or both. The tax treatment that applies to a business depends on its legal form of organization. Firms that are organized under the tax code as “C” corporations (which include most large, publicly held corporations) have their profits taxed once at the entity level under the corporate income tax (on a form 1120) and then a second time under the individual inco"
123,"me tax when profits are transferred to individual shareholders in the form of dividends or realized capital gains. Firms that are organized as “pass-through” entities, such as partnerships, limited liability companies, and “S” corporations are generally not taxed at the entity level; however, their net incomes are passed through each year and taxed in the hands of their partners or shareholders under the individual income tax (as part of those taxpayers’ form 1040 filing). Similarly, income from businesses "
124,"that are owned by single individuals enters into the taxable incomes of those owners under the individual income tax and is not subject to a separate entity-level tax. The base of the federal corporate income tax includes net income from business operations (receipts, minus the costs of purchased goods, labor, interest, and other expenses). It also includes net income that corporations earn in the form of interest, dividends, rent, royalties, and realized capital gains. The statutory rate of tax on net corp"
125,"orate income ranges from 15 to 35 percent, depending on the amount of income earned. The United States taxes the worldwide income of domestic corporations, regardless of where the income is earned, with a foreign tax credit for certain taxes paid to other countries. However, the timing of the tax liability depends on several factors, including whether the income is from a U.S. or foreign source and, if it is from a foreign source, whether it is earned through direct operations or through a subsidiary. The b"
126,"ase of the individual income tax covers business-source income paid to individuals, such as dividends, realized net capital gains on corporate equity, and income from self-employment. The statutory rates of tax on net taxable income range from 10 percent to 35 percent. Lower rates (generally 5 percent and 15 percent, depending on taxable income) apply to long-term capital gains and dividend income. Sole proprietors also pay both the employer and employee shares of social insurance taxes on their net busines"
127,"s income. Generally, a U.S. citizen or resident pays tax on his or her worldwide income, including income derived from foreign-source dividends and capital gains subject to a credit for foreign taxes paid on such income. Three long-standing criteria—economic efficiency, equity, and a combination of simplicity, transparency and administrability—are typically used to evaluate tax policy. These criteria are often in conflict with each other, and as a result, there are usually trade-offs to consider and people "
128,"are likely to disagree about the relative importance of the criteria. Specific aspects of business taxes can be evaluated in terms of how they support or detract from the efficiency, equity, simplicity, transparency, and administrability of the overall tax system. To the extent that a tax system is not simple and efficient, it imposes costs on taxpayers beyond the payments they make to the U.S. Treasury. As shown in figure 1, the total cost of any tax from a taxpayer’s point of view is the sum of the tax li"
129,"ability, the cost of complying with the tax system, and the economic efficiency costs that the tax imposes. In deciding on the size of government, we balance the total cost of taxes with the benefits provided by government programs. A complete evaluation of the tax treatment of businesses, which is a critical element of our overall federal tax system, cannot be made without considering how business taxation interacts with and complements the other elements of the overall system, such as the tax treatment of"
130," individuals and excise taxes on selected goods and services. This integrated approach is also appropriate for evaluating reform alternatives, regardless of whether those alternatives take the form of a simplified income tax system, a consumption tax system, or some combination of the two. Businesses contribute significant revenues to the federal government, both directly and indirectly. As figure 2 shows, corporate businesses paid $278 billion in corporate income tax directly to the federal government in 2"
131,"005. Individuals earn income from business investment in the form of dividends and realized capital gains from C corporations; income allocations from partnerships and S corporations; entrepreneurial income from their own sole proprietorships; and rents and royalties. In recent years this business- source income, which is all taxed under the individual income tax, has amounted to between roughly 14 percent and 19 percent of the income of individuals who have paid individual income tax. In addition to the ta"
132,"xes that are paid on business-source income, most of the remainder of federal taxes is collected and passed on to the government by businesses. Business tax revenues of the magnitude discussed make them very relevant to considerations about how to address the nation’s long-term fiscal imbalance. Over the long term, the United States faces a large and growing structural budget deficit primarily caused by demographic trends and rising health care costs as shown in figure 3, and exacerbated over time by growin"
133,"g interest on the ever-larger federal debt. Continuing on this imprudent and unsustainable fiscal path will gradually erode, if not suddenly damage, our economy, our standard of living, and ultimately our national security. We cannot grow our way out of this long-term fiscal challenge because the imbalance between spending and revenue is so large. We will need to make tough choices using a multipronged approach: (1) revise budget processes and financial reporting requirements; (2) restructure entitlement pr"
134,"ograms; (3) reexamine the base of discretionary spending and other spending; and (4) review and revise tax policy, including tax expenditures, and tax enforcement programs. Business tax policy, business tax expenditures, and business tax enforcement need to be part of the overall tax review because of the amount of revenue at stake. Business tax expenditures reduce the revenue that would otherwise be raised from businesses. As already noted, to reduce their tax liabilities, businesses can take advantage of "
135,"preferential provisions in the tax code, such as exclusions, exemptions, deductions, credits, preferential rates, and deferral of tax liability. Tax preferences—which are legally known as tax expenditures—are often aimed at policy goals similar to those of federal spending programs. For example, there are different tax expenditures intended to encourage economic development in disadvantaged areas and stimulate research and development, while there are also federal spending programs that have similar purpose"
136,"s. Also, by narrowing the tax base, business tax expenditures have the effect of raising either business tax rates or the rates on other taxpayers in order to generate a given amount of revenue. The design of the current system of business taxation causes economic inefficiency and is complex. The complexity provides fertile ground for noncompliance and raises equity concerns. Our current system for taxing business income causes economic inefficiency because it imposes significantly different effective rates"
137," of tax on different types of investments. Tax treatment that is not neutral across different types of capital investment causes significant economic inefficiency by guiding investments to lightly taxed activities rather than those with high pretax productivity. However, the goal of tax policy is not to eliminate efficiency costs. The goal is to design a tax system that produces a desired amount of revenue and balances economic efficiency with other objectives, such as equity, simplicity, transparency, and "
138,"administrability. Every practical tax system imposes efficiency costs. There are some features of current business taxation that have attracted criticism by economists and other tax experts because of efficiency costs. My point in raising them here is not that these features need to be changed—that is a policy judgment for Congress to make as it balances various goals. Rather, my point is that these economic consequences of tax policy need to be considered as we think about reform. The following are among t"
139,"he most noted cases of nonneutral taxation in the federal business tax system: Income earned on equity-financed investments made by C corporations is taxed twice—under both the corporate and individual income taxes, whereas no other business income is taxed more than once. Moreover, even noncorporate business investment is taxed more heavily than owner-occupied housing—a form of capital investment that receives very preferential treatment. As a result, resources have been shifted away from higher-return bus"
140,"iness investment into owner-occupied housing, and, within the business sector, resources have been shifted from higher-return corporations to noncorporate businesses. Such shifting of investment makes workers less productive than they would be under a more neutral tax system. This results in employees receiving lower wages because increases in employee wages are generally tied to increases in productivity. As noted above, such efficiency costs may be worth paying in order to meet other policy goals. For exa"
141,"mple, many policymakers advocate increased homeownership as a social policy goal. Depreciation allowances under the tax code vary considerably in generosity across different assets causing effective tax rates to vary and, thereby, favoring investment in certain assets over others. For example, researchers have found that the returns on most types of investments in equipment are taxed more favorably than are most investments in nonresidential buildings. These biases shift resources away from some investments"
142," in buildings that would have been more productive than some of the equipment investments that are being made instead. Tax rules for corporations favor the use of debt over shareholder equity as a source of finance for investment. The return on debt- financed investment consists of interest payments to the corporation’s creditors, which are deductible by the corporations. Consequently, that return is taxed only once—in the hands of the creditors. In contrast, the return on equity-financed investment consist"
143,"s of dividends and capital gains, which are not deductible by the corporation. These forms of income that are taxed under the individual tax are paid out of income that has already been subject to the corporate income tax. The bias against equity finance induces corporations to have less of an “equity cushion” against business downturns. Capital gains on corporate equity are taxed more favorably than dividends because that tax can be deferred until the gains are realized (typically when shareholders sell th"
144,"eir stock). This bias against dividend payments likely means that more profits are retained within corporations than otherwise would be the case and, therefore, the flow of capital to its most productive uses is being constrained. The complex set of rules governing U.S. taxation of the worldwide income of domestic corporations (those incorporated in the United States) leads to wide variations in the effective rate of tax paid on that income, based on the nature and location of each corporation’s foreign ope"
145,"rations and the effort put into tax planning. In effect, the active foreign income of some U.S. corporations is taxed more heavily than if the United States followed the practice of many other countries and exempted such income from tax. However, other U.S. corporations are able to take advantage of flexibilities in the U.S. tax rules in order to achieve treatment that is equivalent to or, in some cases, more favorable than the so-called “territorial” tax systems that exempt foreign-source active business i"
146,"ncome. As a consequence, some U.S. corporations face a tax disadvantage, while others have an advantage, relative to foreign corporations when competing in foreign countries. Those U.S. corporations that have a disadvantage are likely to locate a smaller share of their investment overseas than would be the case in a tax-free world; the opposite is true for those U.S. corporations with the tax advantage. Moreover, the tax system encourages U.S. corporations to alter their cash-management and financing decisi"
147,ons (such as by delaying the repatriation of profits) in order to reduce their taxes. The taxation of business income is part of the broader taxation of income from capital. The taxation of capital income in general (even when that taxation is uniformly applied) causes another form of inefficiency beyond the inefficiencies caused by the aforementioned cases of differential taxation across types of investments. This additional inefficiency occurs because taxes on capital reduce the after-tax return on saving
148,"s and, thereby, distort the choice that individuals make between current consumption and saving for future consumption. However, although research shows that the demand for some types of savings, such as the demand for tax exempt bonds, is responsive to tax changes, there is greater uncertainty about the effects of tax changes on other choices, such as aggregate savings. Sometimes the concerns about the negative effects of taxation on the U.S. economy are couched in terms of “competitiveness,” where the vag"
149,"uely defined term competitiveness is often defined as the ability of U.S. businesses to export their products to foreign markets and to compete against foreign imports into the U.S. market. The goal of those who push for this type of competitiveness is to improve the U.S. balance of trade. However, economists generally agree that trying to increase the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks for exports does not work. Such a policy, aimed at lowering the prices of exports, would be offset by an in"
150,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
151,"n operations at a disadvantage. The tradeoffs between a worldwide system and a territorial tax system are discussed below. Tax compliance requirements for businesses are extensive and complex. Rules governing the computation of taxable income, expense deductions, and tax credits of U.S. corporations that do business in multiple foreign countries are particularly complex. But even small businesses face multiple levels of tax requirements of varying difficulty. In addition to computing and documenting their i"
152,"ncome, expenses, and qualifications for various tax credits, businesses with employees are responsible for collecting and remitting (at varying intervals) several federal taxes on the incomes of those employees. Moreover, if the businesses choose to offer their employees retirement plans and other fringe benefits, they can substantially increase the number of filings they must make. Businesses also have information-reporting responsibilities—employers send wage statements to their employees and to IRS; bank"
153,"s and other financial intermediaries send investment income statements to clients and to IRS. Finally, a relatively small percentage of all businesses (which nevertheless number in the hundreds of thousands) are required to participate in the collection of various federal excise taxes levied on fuels, heavy trucks and trailers, communications, guns, tobacco, and alcohol, among other products. It is difficult for researchers to accurately estimate compliance costs for the tax system as a whole or for particu"
154,lar types of taxpayers because taxpayers generally do not keep records of the time and money spent complying with tax requirements. Studies we found that focus on the compliance costs of businesses estimate them to be between about $40 billion and $85 billion per year. None of these estimates include the costs to businesses of collecting and remitting income and payroll taxes for their employees. The accuracy of these business compliance cost estimates is uncertain due to the low rates of response to their 
155,"data-collection surveys. In addition, the range in estimates across the studies is due, among other things, to differences in monetary values used (ranging between $25 per hour and $37.26 per hour), differences in the business populations covered, and differences in the tax years covered. Although the precise amount of business tax avoidance is unknown, IRS’s latest estimates of tax compliance show a tax gap of at least $141 billion for tax year 2001 between the business taxes that individual and corporate "
156,"taxpayers paid and what they should have paid under the law. Corporations contributed about $32 billion to the tax gap by underreporting about $30 billion in taxes on tax returns and failing to pay about $2 billion in taxes that were reported on returns. Individual taxpayers that underreported their business income accounted for the remaining $109 billion of the business income tax gap. A complex tax code, complicated business transactions, and often multinational corporate structures make determining busin"
157,"ess tax liabilities and the extent of corporate tax avoidance a challenge. Tax avoidance has become such a concern that some tax experts say corporate tax departments have become “profit centers” as corporations seek to take advantage of the tax laws in order to maximize shareholder value. Some corporate tax avoidance is clearly legal, some falls in gray areas of the tax code, and some is clearly noncompliance or illegal, as shown by IRS’s tax gap estimate. Often business tax avoidance is legal. For example"
158,", multinational corporations can locate active trade or business operations in jurisdictions that have lower effective tax rates than does the United States and, unless and until they repatriate the income, defer taxation in the United States on that income, thus reducing their effective tax rate. In addition, investors can avoid paying the corporate income tax by putting their money into unincorporated businesses or into real estate. Complicating corporate tax compliance is the fact that in many cases the "
159,"law is unclear or subject to differing interpretations. In fact, some have postulated that major corporations’ tax returns are actually just the opening bid in an extended negotiation with IRS to determine a corporation’s tax liability. An illustration—once again from the complex area of international tax rules—is transfer pricing. Transfer pricing involves setting the appropriate price for such things as goods, services, or intangible property (such as patents, trademarks, copyrights, technology, or “know-"
160,"how”) that is transferred between the U.S.-based operations of a multinational company and a foreign affiliate. If the price paid by the affiliate to the U.S. operation is understated, the profits of the U.S. operation are reduced and U.S. taxable income is inappropriately reduced or eliminated. The standard for judging the correct price is the price that would have been paid between independent enterprises acting at “arm’s length.” However, it can be extremely difficult to establish what an arm’s length pr"
161,"ice would be. Given the global economy and the number of multinational firms with some U.S.-based operations, opportunities for transfer pricing disputes are likely to grow. Tax shelters are one example of how tax avoidance, including corporate tax avoidance, can shade into the illegal. Some tax shelters are legal though perhaps aggressive interpretations of the law, but others cross the line. Abusive shelters often are complex transactions that manipulate many parts of the tax code or regulations and are t"
162,"ypically buried among legitimate transactions reported on tax returns. Because these transactions are often composed of many pieces located in several parts of a complex tax return, they are essentially hidden from plain sight, which contributes to the difficulty of determining the scope of the abusive shelter problem. Often lacking economic substance or a business purpose other than generating tax benefits, abusive shelters have been promoted by some tax professionals, often in confidence, for significant "
163,"fees, sometimes with the participation of tax-indifferent parties, such as foreign or tax-exempt entities. These shelters may involve unnecessary steps and flow-through entities, such as partnerships, which make detection of these transactions more difficult. Regarding compliance with our tax laws, the success of our tax system hinges greatly on individual and business taxpayers’ perception of its fairness and understandability. Compliance is influenced not only by the effectiveness of IRS’s enforcement eff"
164,"orts but also by Americans’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
165,ur business tax system will be to determine how we can best strengthen enforcement of existing laws to give businesses owners confidence that their competitors are paying their fair share and to give wage earners confidence that businesses in general bear their share of taxes. One option that has been suggested as a means of improving public confidence in the tax system’s fairness is to make the reconciliation between book and tax income that businesses present on schedule M-3 of their tax returns available
166," for public review. Reform of our business tax system will necessarily mean making broad design choices about the overall tax system and how business taxes are coordinated with other taxes. The tax reform debate of the last several years has focused attention on several important choices, including the extent to which our system should be closer to the extreme of a pure income tax or the other extreme of a pure consumption tax, the extent to which sales by U.S. businesses outside of this country should be t"
167,"axed, the extent to which taxes should be collected from businesses or individuals, and the extent to which taxpayers are compensated for losses or costs they incur during the transition to any new tax system. Generally there is no single “right” decision about these choices and the options are not limited to selecting a system that is at one extreme or the other along the continuum of potential systems. The choices will involve making tradeoffs between the various goals for our tax system. The fundamental "
168,"difference between income and consumption taxes lies in their treatment of savings and investment. Income can be used for either consumption or saving and investment. The tax base of a pure income tax includes all income, regardless of what it is ultimately used for; in contrast, the tax base of a consumption tax excludes income devoted to saving and investment (until it is ultimately used for consumption). The current tax system is a hybrid between a pure income tax and a pure consumption tax because it ef"
169,"fectively exempts some types of savings and investment but taxes other types. As noted earlier, evidence is inconclusive regarding whether a shift closer to a consumption tax base would significantly affect the level of savings by U.S. taxpayers. There is, however, a consensus among economists that uneven tax treatment across different types of investment should be avoided unless the efficiency costs resulting from preferential tax treatment are outweighed by the social benefits generated by the tax prefere"
170,"nce. That objective could be achieved under either a consumption tax that exempts all new savings and investment from taxation (which means that all business profits are exempt) or a revised income tax that taxed all investments at the same effective rate. In comparison to the current system, a consumption tax’s exemption of business-source income would likely encourage U.S. businesses to increase their investment in the United States relative to their foreign investment. Both income and consumption taxes c"
171,"an be structured in a variety of ways, as discussed in the following subsections, and the choice of a specific design for either type of tax can have as significant implications for efficiency, administrability, and equity as the choice between a consumption or income base. The exemption of saving and investment can be accomplished in different ways, so consumption taxes can be structured differently and yet still have the same overall tax base. Both income and consumption taxes can be levied on individuals"
172," or businesses, or on a combination of the two. Whether collected from individuals or businesses, ultimately, individuals will bear the economic burden of any tax (as wage earners, shareholders, or consumers). The choice of whether to collect a tax at the business level or the individual level depends on whether it is thought to be desirable to levy different taxes on different individuals. A business-level tax, whether levied on income or consumption, can be collected “at source”—that is, where it is gener"
173,"ated—so there can be many fewer tax filers and returns to administer. Business-level taxes cannot, however, directly tax different individuals at different rates. Individual-level taxes can allow for distinctions between different individuals; for example, standard deductions or graduated rates can be used to tax individuals with low income (or consumption) at a lower rate than individuals with greater income (or consumption). However, individual-level taxes require more tax returns, impose higher complianc"
174,"e costs, and would generally require a larger tax administration system. A national retail sales tax, a consumption value-added tax, and an income value-added tax are examples of taxes that would be collected only at the business level. A personal consumption tax and an integrated individual income tax are examples of taxes that would be collected only at the individual level. The “flat tax” proposed by economists Robert Hall and Alvin Rabushka that has received attention in recent years is an example of a "
175,"tax collected at both the business and individual level. Our current system for taxing corporate-source income involves taxation at both the corporate and individual level in a manner that results in the double taxation of the same income. Under a pure worldwide tax system the United States would tax the income of U.S. corporations, as it is earned, regardless of where it is earned, and at the same time provide a foreign tax credit that ensures that the combined rate of tax that a corporation pays to all go"
176,vernments on each dollar of income is exactly equal to the U.S. corporate tax rate. Some basic differences between the current U.S. tax system and a pure worldwide system are that (1) in many cases the U.S. system permits corporations to defer U.S. tax on their foreign-source income until it is repatriated and (2) the U.S. foreign tax credit is limited to the amount of U.S. tax that would be due on a corporation’s foreign-source income. In cases where the rate of foreign tax on a corporation’s income exceed
177,"s the U.S. tax rate, the corporation is left paying the higher rate of tax. Under a pure territorial tax system the United States would simply exempt all foreign-source income. (No major country has a pure territorial system; they all tax mobile forms of foreign-source income, such as royalties and income from securities.) The current U.S. tax system has some features that result in some cases in treatment similar to what would exist under a territorial system. First, corporations can defer U.S. tax indefin"
178,"itely on certain foreign-source income, as long as they keep it reinvested abroad. Second, in certain cases U.S. corporations are able to use the excess credits that they earned for taxes they paid to high-tax countries to completely offset any U.S. tax that they would normally have to pay on income they earned in low-tax countries. As a result, that income from low-tax countries remains untaxed by the United States—just as it would be under a territorial system. In fact, there are some cases where U.S. cor"
179,"porations enjoy tax treatment that is more favorable than under a territorial system. This occurs when they pay no U.S. tax on foreign-source income yet are still able to deduct expenses allocable to that income. For example, a U.S. parent corporation can borrow money and invest it in a foreign subsidiary. The parent corporation generally can deduct its interest payments from its U.S. taxes even if it defers U.S. tax on the subsidiary’s income by leaving it overseas. Proponents of a worldwide tax system and"
180, proponents of a territorial system both argue that their preferred systems would provide important forms of tax neutrality. Under a pure worldwide system all of the income that a U.S. corporation earns abroad would be taxed at the same effective rate that a corporation earning the same amount of income domestically would pay. Such a tax system is neutral in the sense that it does not influence the decision of U.S. corporations to invest abroad or at home. If the U.S. had a pure territorial tax system all o
181,f the income that U.S. corporations earn in a particular country would be taxed at the same rate as corporations that are residents of that country. The pure territorial system is neutral in the specific sense that U.S. corporations investing in a foreign country would not be at a disadvantage relative to corporations residing in that country or relative to other foreign corporations investing there. In a world where each country sets its own tax rules it is impossible to achieve both types of neutrality at
182," the same time, so tradeoffs are unavoidable. A change from the current tax system to a pure territorial one is likely to have mixed effects on tax compliance and administration. On the one hand, a pure worldwide tax system, or even the current system, may preserve the U.S. tax base better than a territorial system would because U.S. taxpayers would have greater incentive under a territorial system to shift income and investment into low-tax jurisdictions via transfer pricing. On the other hand, a pure terr"
183,"itorial system may be less complex for IRS to administer and for taxpayers to comply with than the current tax system because there would be no need for the antideferral rules or the foreign tax credit, which are among the most complex features of the current system. Broad-based consumption taxes can differ depending on whether they are imposed under a destination principle, which holds that goods and services should be taxed in the countries where they are consumed, or an origin principle, which holds that"
184," goods and services should be taxed in the countries where they are produced. In the long run, after markets have adjusted, neither type of tax would have a significant effect on the U.S. trade balance. This is true for a destination-based tax because products consumed in the United States would be taxed at the same rate, regardless of where they were produced. Therefore, such a tax would not influence a consumer’s choice between buying a car produced in the United States or one imported from Japan. And at "
185,"the same time, U.S. exports of cars would not be affected by the tax because they would be exempted. An origin-based consumption tax would not affect the trade balance because the tax effects that taxes have on prices would ultimately be countered by the same price adjustment mechanism that we discussed earlier with respect to targeted tax subsidies for exports. A national retail sales tax limited to final consumption goods would be a destination-principle tax; it would tax imports when sold at retail in th"
186,"is country and would not tax exports. Value-added taxes can be designed as either destination or origin-principle taxes. A personal consumption tax, collected at the individual level, would apply to U.S. residents or citizens and could be formulated to tax their consumption regardless of whether it is done domestically or overseas. Under such a system, income earned abroad would be taxable but funds saved or invested abroad would be deductible. In that case, foreign- produced goods imported into the United "
187,"States or consumed by U.S. citizens abroad would be taxed. U.S. exports would only be taxed to the extent that they are consumed by U.S. citizens abroad. A wide range of options exist for moving from the current business tax system to an alternative one, and the way that any transition is formulated could have significant effects for economic efficiency, equity, taxpayer compliance burden, and tax administration. For example, one transition issue involves whether tax credits and other tax benefits already e"
188,"arned under the current tax would be made available under a new system. Businesses that are deducting depreciation under the current system would not have the opportunity to continue depreciating their capital goods under a VAT unless special rules were included to permit it. Similar problems could arise with businesses’ carrying forward net operating losses and recovering unclaimed tax credits. Depending on how these and other issues are addressed, taxpayer compliance burden and tax administration responsi"
189,"bilities could be greater during the transition period than they currently are or than they would be once the transition ends. Transition rules could also substantially reduce the new system’s tax base, thereby requiring higher tax rates during the transition if revenue neutrality were to be achieved. Our publication, Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, and Questions, may be useful in guiding policymakers as they consider tax reform proposals. It was designed to aid policymakers in th"
190,"inking about how to develop tax policy for the 21st century. The criteria for a good tax system, which our report discusses, provide the basis for a set of principles that should guide Congress as it considers the choices and tradeoffs involved in tax system reform. And, as I also noted earlier, proposals for reforming business taxation cannot be evaluated without considering how that business taxation will interact with and complement the other elements of our overall future tax system. The proposed system"
191," should raise sufficient revenue over time to fund our expected expenditures. As I mentioned earlier, we will fall woefully short of achieving this end if current spending or revenue trends are not altered. Although we clearly must restructure major entitlement programs and the basis of other federal spending, it is unlikely that our long-term fiscal challenge will be resolved solely by cutting spending. The proposal should look to future needs. Like many spending programs, the current tax system was develo"
192,"ped in a profoundly different time. We live now in a much more global economy, with highly mobile capital, and with investment options available to ordinary citizens that were not even imagined decades ago. We have growing concentrations of income and wealth. More firms operate multinationally and willingly move operations and capital around the world as they see best for their firms. As an adjunct to looking forward when making reforms, better information on existing commitments and promises must be couple"
193,"d with estimates of the long-term discounted net present value costs from spending and tax commitments comprising longer-term exposures for the federal budget beyond the existing 10-year budget projection window. The tax base should be as broad as possible. Broad-based tax systems with minimal exceptions have many advantages. Fewer exceptions generally means less complexity, less compliance cost, less economic efficiency loss, and by increasing transparency may improve equity or perceptions of equity. This "
194,suggests that eliminating or consolidating numerous tax expenditures must be considered. In many cases tax preferences are simply a form of “back-door spending.” We need to be sure that the benefits achieved from having these special provisions are worth the associated revenue losses just as we must ensure that outlay programs— which may be attempting to achieve the same purposes as tax expenditures—achieve outcomes commensurate with their costs. And it is important to supplement these cost-benefit evaluati
195,"ons with analyses of distributional effects—i.e., who bears the costs of the preferences and who receives the benefits. To the extent tax expenditures are retained, consideration should be given to whether they could be better targeted to meet an identified need. If we must raise revenues, doing so from a broad base and a lower rate will help minimize economic efficiency costs. Broad-based tax systems can yield the same revenue as more narrowly based systems at lower tax rates. The combination of less direc"
196,"t intervention in the marketplace from special tax preferences, and the lower rates possible from broad-based systems, can have substantial benefits for economic efficiency. For instance, one commonly cited rule of thumb regarding economic efficiency costs of tax increases is that they rise proportionately faster than the tax rates. In other words, a 10 percent tax increase could raise the economic efficiency costs of a tax system by much more than 10 percent. Aside from the base-broadening that minimizes t"
197,"argeted tax preferences favoring specific types of investment or other business behavior, it is also desirable on the grounds of economic efficiency to extend the principle of tax neutrality to the broader structural features of a business tax system. For example, improvements in economic efficiency can also be gained by avoiding differences in tax treatment, such as the differences in the current system based on legal form of organization, source of financing, and the nature and location of foreign operati"
198,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Americans. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
199,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Americans is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Americans and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
200,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to American productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
201,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Americans over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
202,"references or complex provisions and taxable transactions are transparent. Transparency in the context of tax administration is best achieved when third parties report information both to the taxpayer and the tax administrator. Minimizing tax code complexity has the potential to reduce noncompliance for at least three broad reasons. First, it could help taxpayers to comply voluntarily with more certainty, reducing inadvertent errors by those who want to comply but are confused because of complexity. Second,"
203," it may limit opportunities for tax evasion, reducing intentional noncompliance by taxpayers who can misuse the complex code provisions to hide their noncompliance or to achieve ends through tax shelters. Third, reducing tax-code complexity could improve taxpayers’ willingness to comply voluntarily. Finally, the consideration of transition rules needs to be an integral part of the design of a new system. The effects of these rules can be too significant to leave them simply as an afterthought in the reform "
204,"process. The problems that I have reviewed today relating to the compliance costs, efficiency costs, equity, and tax gap associated with the current business tax system would seem to make a strong case for a comprehensive review and reform of our tax policy. Further, businesses operate in a world that is profoundly different—more competitive and more global—than when many of the existing provisions of the tax code were adopted. Despite numerous and repeated calls for reform, progress has been slow. I discus"
205,"sed reasons for the slow progress in a previous hearing on individual tax reform before this committee. One reason why reform is difficult to accomplish is that the provisions of the tax code that generate compliance costs, efficiency costs, the tax gap and inequities also benefit many taxpayers. Reform is also difficult because, even when there is agreement on the amount of revenue to raise, there are differing opinions on the appropriate balance among the often conflicting objectives of equity, efficiency"
206,", and administrability. This, in turn, leads to widely divergent views on even the basic direction of reform. However, I have described some basic principles that ought to guide business tax reform. One of them is revenue sufficiency. Fiscal necessity, prompted by the nation’s unsustainable fiscal path, will eventually force changes to our spending and tax policies. We must fundamentally rethink policies and everything must be on the table. Tough choices will have to be made about the appropriate degree of "
207,"emphasis on cutting back federal programs versus increasing tax revenue. Other principles, such as broadening the tax base and otherwise promoting tax neutrality, could help improve economic performance. While economic growth alone will not solve our long-term fiscal problems, an improvement in our overall economic performance makes dealing with those problems easier. The recent report of the President’s Advisory Panel on Federal Tax Reform recommended two different tax reform plans. Although each plan is i"
208,"ntended to improve economic efficiency and simplify the tax system, neither of them addresses the growing imbalance between federal spending and revenues that I have highlighted. One approach for getting the process of comprehensive fiscal reform started would be through the establishment of a credible, capable, and bipartisan commission, to examine options for a combination of selected entitlement and tax reform issues. Mr. Chairman and Members of the Committee, this concludes my statement. I would be plea"
209,"sed to answer any questions you may have at this time. For further information on this testimony, please contact James White on (202) 512-9110 or whitej@gao.gov. Contact points for our Offices of Congressional Relations and Public Affairs may be found on the last page of this testimony. Individuals making key contributions to this testimony include Jim Wozny, Assistant Director; Donald Marples; Jeff Arkin; and Cheryl Peterson. Individual Income Tax Policy: Streamlining, Simplification, and Additional Reform"
210,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. GAO-05-1009SP. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
211,"lity: Tax Expenditures Represent a Substantial Federal Commitment and Need to Be Reexamined. GAO-05-690. Washington, D.C.: Sept. 23, 2005. Tax Policy: Summary of Estimates of the Costs of the Federal Tax System. GAO-05-878. Washington, D.C.: August 26, 2005. Tax Compliance: Reducing the Tax Gap Can Contribute to Fiscal Sustainability but Will Require a Variety of Strategies. GAO-05-527T. Washington, D.C.: April 14, 2005. 21st Century Challenges: Reexamining the Base of the Federal Government. GAO-05-325SP. "
212,"Washington, D.C.: February 1, 2005. Tax Administration: Potential Impact of Alternative Taxes on Taxpayers and Administrators. GAO/GGD-98-37. Washington, D.C.: January 14, 1998. Corporate Income Tax Rates: International Comparisons. Washington, D.C.: November 2005. Taxing Capital Income: Effective Rates and Approaches to Reform. Washington, D.C.: October 2005. Effects of Adopting a Value-Added Tax. Washington, D.C.: February 1992. Brumbaugh, David L. Taxes and International Competitiveness. RS22445. Washing"
213,"ton, D.C.: May 19, 2006. Brumbaugh, David L. Federal Business Taxation: The Current System, Its Effects, and Options for Reform. RL33171. Washington, D.C.: December 20, 2005. Gravelle, Jane G.. Capital Income Tax Revisions and Effective Tax Rates. RL32099. Washington, D.C.: January 5, 2005. The Impact of International Tax Reform: Background and Selected Issues Relating to U.S. International Tax Rules and the Competitiveness of U.S. Businesses. JCX-22-06. Washington, D.C.: June 21, 2006. Options to Improve T"
214,"ax Compliance and Reform Tax Expenditures. JCS- 02-05. Washington, D.C.: January 27, 2005. The U.S. International Tax Rules: Background, Data, and Selected Issues Relating to the Competitiveness of U.S.-Based Business Operations. JCX- 67-03. Washington, D.C.: July 3, 2003. Background Materials on Business Tax Issues Prepared for the House Committee on Ways and Means Tax Policy Discussion Series. JCX-23-02. Washington, D.C.: April 4, 2002. Report to The Congress on Depreciation Recovery Periods and Methods. "
215,"Washington, D.C.: July 2000. Integration of The Individual and Corporate Tax Systems: Taxing Business Income Once. Washington, D.C.: January 1992. Simple, Fair, and Pro-Growth: Proposals to Fix America’s Tax System. Washington, D.C.: November 2005. Over the past decade, several proposals for fundamental tax reform have been put forward. These proposals would significantly change tax rates, the tax base, and the level of tax (whether taxes are collected from individuals, businesses, or both). Some of the pro"
216,"posals would replace the federal income tax with some type of consumption tax levied only on businesses. Consumption taxes levied only on businesses include retail sales taxes (RST) and value-added taxes (VAT). The flat tax would also change the tax base to consumption but include both a relatively simple individual tax along with a business tax. A personal consumption tax, a consumption tax levied primarily on individuals, has also been proposed. Similar changes in the level at which taxes are collected co"
217,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Americans are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
218," that is saved is not taxed until it is used for consumption. Under a national RST, different tax rates could be applied to different goods, and the sale of some goods could carry a zero tax rate (exemption). However, directly taxing different individuals at different rates for the same good would be very difficult. A consumption VAT, which like the RST, is a business-level consumption tax levied directly on the purchase of goods and services. The two taxes differ in the manner in which the tax is collected"
219," and paid. In contrast to a retail sales tax, sales of goods and services to consumers and to businesses are taxable under a VAT. However, businesses can either deduct the amount of their purchases of goods and services from other businesses (under a subtraction VAT) or can claim a credit for tax paid on purchases from other businesses (under a credit VAT). Under either method, sales between businesses do not generate net tax liability under a VAT because the amount included in the tax base by businesses se"
220,"lling goods is equal to the amount deducted by the business purchasing goods. The only sales that generate net revenue for the government are sales between businesses and consumers, which is the same case as the RST. An income VAT would move the taxation of wage income to the business level as well. No individual returns would be necessary, so the burden of complying with the tax law would be eliminated for individuals. An income VAT would not allow businesses to deduct dividends, interest, or wages, so the"
221," income VAT remitted by businesses would include tax on these types of income. Calculations would not have to be made for different individuals, which would simplify tax administration and compliance burdens but not allow for treating different individuals differently. The flat tax was developed in the early 1980s by economists Robert Hall and Alvin Rabushka. The Hall-Rabushka flat tax proposal includes both an individual tax and a business tax. As described by Hall and Rabushka, the flat tax is a modificat"
222,"ion of a VAT; the modifications make the tax more progressive (less regressive) than a VAT. In particular, the business tax base is designed to be the same as that of a VAT, except that businesses are allowed to deduct wages and retirement income paid out as well as purchases from other businesses. Wage and retirement income is then taxed when received by individuals at the same rate as the business tax rate. By including this individual-level tax as well as the business tax, standard deductions can be made"
223," available to individuals. Individuals with less wage and retirement income than the standard deduction amounts would not owe any tax. A personal consumption tax would look much like a personal income tax. The major difference between the two is that under the consumption tax, taxpayers would include all income received, amounts borrowed, and cash flows received from the sale of assets, and then deduct the amount they saved. The remaining amount would be a measure of the taxpayer’s consumption over the year"
224,". When funds are withdrawn from bank accounts, or stocks or bonds are sold, both the original amount saved and interest earned are taxable because they are available for consumption. If withdrawn funds are reinvested in another qualified account or in stock or bonds, the taxable amount of the withdrawal would be offset by the deduction for the same amount that is reinvested. While the personal consumption tax would look like a personal income tax, the tax base would be the same as an RST. Instead of collect"
225,"ing tax on each sale of consumer products at the business level, a personal consumption tax would tax individuals annually on the sum of all their purchases of consumption goods. Because it is an individual-level tax, different tax rates could be applied to different individuals so that the tax could be made more progressive, and other taxpayer characteristics, such as family size, could be taken into account if desired. This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the"
226," United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately."
227,"There are some similarities in how Medicare pays ASCs and hospital outpatient departments for the procedures they perform. However, the methods used by CMS to calculate the payment rates in each system, as well as the mechanisms used to revise the Medicare payment rates, differ. In 1980, legislation was enacted that enabled ASCs to bill Medicare for certain surgical procedures provided to Medicare beneficiaries. Under the ASC payment system, Medicare pays a predetermined, and generally all- inclusive, amoun"
228,"t per procedure to the facility. The approximately 2,500 surgical procedures that ASCs may bill for under Medicare are assigned to one of nine payment groups that contain procedures with similar costs, but not necessarily clinical similarities. All procedures assigned to one payment group are paid at the same rate. Under the Medicare payment system, when more than one procedure is performed at the same time, the ASC receives a payment for each of the procedures. However, the procedure that has the highest p"
229,"ayment rate receives 100 percent of the applicable payment, and each additional procedure receives 50 percent of the applicable payment. The Medicare payment for a procedure performed at an ASC is intended to cover the direct costs for a procedure, such as nursing and technician services, drugs, medical and surgical supplies and equipment, anesthesia materials, and diagnostic services (including imaging services), and the indirect costs associated with the procedure, including use of the facility and relate"
230,"d administrative services. The ASC payment for a procedure does not include payment for implantable devices or prosthetics related to the procedure; ASCs may bill separately for those items. In addition, the payment to the ASC does not include payment for professional services associated with the procedure; the physician who performs the procedure and the anesthesiologist or anesthetist bill Medicare directly for their services. Finally, the ASC payment does not include payment for certain other services th"
231,"at are not directly related to performing the procedure and do not occur during the time that the procedure takes place, such as some laboratory, X-ray, and other diagnostic tests. Because these additional services are not ASC procedures, they may be performed by another provider. In those cases, Medicare makes payments to those providers for the additional services. For example, a laboratory service needed to evaluate a tissue sample removed during an ASC procedure is not included in the ASC payment. The p"
232,"rovider that evaluated the tissue sample would bill and receive payment from Medicare for that service. Because ASCs receive one inclusive payment for the procedure performed and its associated services, such as drugs, they generally include on their Medicare claim only the procedure performed. In 1997, legislation was enacted that required the implementation of a prospective payment system for hospital outpatient departments; the OPPS was implemented in August 2000. Although ASCs perform only procedures, h"
233,"ospital outpatient departments provide a much broader array of services, including diagnostic services, such as X-rays and laboratory tests, and emergency room and clinic visits. Each of the approximately 5,500 services, including procedures, that hospital outpatient departments perform is assigned to one of over 800 APC groups with other services with clinical and cost similarities for payment under the OPPS. All services assigned to one APC group are paid the same rate. Similar to ASCs, when hospitals per"
234,"form multiple procedures at the same time, they receive 100 percent of the applicable payment for the procedure that has the highest payment rate, and 50 percent of the applicable payment for each additional procedure, subject to certain exceptions. Like payments to ASCs, payment for a procedure under the OPPS is intended to cover the costs of the use of the facility, nursing and technician services, most drugs, medical and surgical supplies and equipment, anesthesia materials, and administrative costs. Med"
235,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other nonphysician practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
236,"n drugs and diagnostic services, including X-rays. Hospital outpatient departments also may bill separately for additional services that are not directly related to the procedure and do not occur during the procedure, such as laboratory services to evaluate a tissue sample. Because they provide a broader array of services, and because CMS has encouraged hospitals to report all services provided during a procedure on their Medicare claims for rate-setting purposes, hospital claims may provide more detail abo"
237,"ut the services delivered during a procedure than ASC claims do. CMS set the initial 1982 ASC payment rates based on cost and charge data from 40 ASCs. At that time, there were about 125 ASCs in operation. Procedures were placed into four payment groups, and all procedures in a group were paid the same rate. When the ASC payment system was first established, federal law required CMS to review the payment rates periodically. In 1986, CMS conducted an ASC survey to gather cost and charge data. In 1990, using "
238,"these data, CMS revised the payment rates and increased the number of payment groups to eight. A ninth payment group was established in 1991. These groups are still in use, although some procedures have been added to or deleted from the ASC-approved list. Although payments have not been revised using ASC cost data since 1990, the payment rates have been periodically updated for inflation. In 1994, Congress required that CMS conduct a survey of ASC costs no later than January 1, 1995, and thereafter every 5 "
239,"years, to revise ASC payment rates. CMS conducted a survey in 1994 to collect ASC cost data. In 1998, CMS proposed revising ASC payment rates based on the 1994 survey data and assigned procedures performed at ASCs into payment groups that were comparable to the payment groups it was developing for the same procedures under the OPPS. However, CMS did not implement the proposal, and, as a result, the ASC payment system was not revised using the 1994 data. In 2003, MMA eliminated the requirement to conduct ASC"
240," surveys every 5 years and required CMS to implement a revised ASC payment system no later than January 1, 2008. During the course of our work, in August 2006, CMS published a proposed rule that would revise the ASC payment system effective January 1, 2008. In this proposed rule, CMS bases the revised ASC payment rates on the OPPS APC groups. However, the payment rates would be lower for ASCs. The initial OPPS payment rates, implemented in August 2000, were based on hospitals’ 1996 costs. To determine the O"
241,"PPS payment rates, CMS first calculates each hospital’s cost for each service by multiplying the charge for that service by a cost-to-charge ratio computed from the hospital’s most recently reported data. After calculating the cost of each service for each hospital, the services are grouped by their APC assignment, and a median cost for each APC group is calculated from the median costs of all services assigned to it. Using the median cost, CMS assigns each APC group a weight based on its median cost relati"
242,"ve to the median cost of all other APCs. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
243," with the top 20 procedures. Of the additional services billed with a procedure, few resulted in an additional payment in one setting but not the other. Hospitals were paid for some of the related additional services they billed with the procedures. In the ASC setting, other providers billed Medicare for these services and received payment for them. In our analysis of Medicare claims, we found many similarities in the additional services billed in the ASC or hospital outpatient department setting with the t"
244,"op 20 procedures. The similar additional services are illustrated in the following four categories of services: additional procedures, laboratory services, radiology services, and anesthesia services. First, one or more additional procedures was billed with a procedure performed in either the ASC or hospital outpatient department setting for 14 of the top 20 procedures. The proportion of time each additional procedure was billed in each setting was similar. For example, when a hammertoe repair procedure was"
245," performed, our analysis indicated that another procedure to correct a bunion was billed 11 percent of the time in the ASC setting, and in the hospital outpatient setting, the procedure to correct a bunion was billed 13 percent of the time. Similarly, when a diagnostic colonoscopy was performed, an upper gastrointestinal (GI) endoscopy was billed 11 percent of the time in the ASC setting, and in the hospital setting, the upper GI endoscopy was billed 12 percent of the time. For 11 of these 14 procedures, th"
246,"e proportion of time each additional procedure was billed differed by less than 10 percentage points between the two settings. For the 3 remaining procedures, the percentage of time that an additional procedure was billed did not vary by more than 25 percentage points between the two settings. See appendix III for a complete list of the additional procedures billed and the proportion of time they were billed in each setting. Second, laboratory services were billed with 10 of the top 20 procedures in the hos"
247,"pital outpatient department setting and 7 of the top 20 procedures in the ASC setting. While these services were almost always billed by the hospital in the outpatient setting, they were typically not billed by the ASCs. These laboratory services were present in our analysis in the ASC setting because they were performed and billed by another Medicare part B provider. Third, four different radiology services were billed with 8 of the top 20 procedures. Radiology services were billed with 5 procedures in the"
248," ASC setting and with 8 procedures in the hospital outpatient department setting. The radiology services generally were included on the hospital outpatient department bills but rarely were included on the ASC bills. Similar to laboratory services, hospital outpatient departments billed for radiology services that they performed in addition to the procedures. When radiology services were billed with procedures in the ASC setting, these services generally were performed and billed by another part B provider. "
249,"Fourth, anesthesia services were billed with 17 of the top 20 procedures in either the ASC or hospital outpatient settings and with 14 procedures in both settings. In virtually every case in the ASC setting, and most cases in the hospital outpatient department setting, these services were billed by another part B provider. According to our analysis, ASCs did not generally include any services other than the procedures they performed on their bills. However, in the hospital outpatient setting, some additiona"
250,"l services were included on the hospitals’ bills. We believe this is a result of the structure of the two payment systems. As ASCs generally receive payment from Medicare only for procedures, they typically include only those procedures on their bills. In contrast, hospital outpatient departments’ bills often include many of the individual items or services they provide as a part of a procedure because CMS has encouraged them to do so, whether the items or services are included in the OPPS payment or paid s"
251,"eparately. With the exception of additional procedures, there were few separate payments that could be made for additional services provided with the top 20 procedures because most of the services in our analysis were included in the Medicare payment to the ASC or hospital. Under both the Medicare ASC and OPPS payment systems, when more than one procedure is performed at the same time, the facility receives 100 percent of the applicable payment for the procedure that has the highest payment rate and 50 perc"
252,"ent of the applicable payment for each additional procedure. As this policy is applicable to both settings, for those instances in our analysis when an additional procedure was performed with one of the top 20 procedures in either setting, the ASC or hospital outpatient department received 100 percent of the payment for the procedure with the highest payment rate and 50 percent of the payment for each lesser paid procedure. Individual drugs were billed by hospital outpatient departments for most of the top "
253,"20 procedures, although they were not present on the claims from ASCs, likely because ASCs generally cannot receive separate Medicare payments for individual drugs. However, none of the individual drugs billed by the hospital outpatient departments in our analysis resulted in an additional payment to the hospitals. In each case, the cost of the particular drug was included in the Medicare payment for the procedure. In the case of the laboratory services billed with procedures in the ASC and hospital outpati"
254,"ent department settings, those services were not costs included in the payment for the procedure in either setting and were paid separately in each case. For both settings, the payment was made to the provider that performed the service. In the case of the hospital outpatient department setting, the payment was generally made to the hospital, while, for procedures performed at ASCs, payment was made to another provider who performed the service. Of the four radiology services in our analysis, three were sim"
255,"ilar to the laboratory services in that they are not included in the cost of the procedure and are separately paid services under Medicare. Therefore, when hospitals provided these services, they received payment for them. In the ASC setting, these services were typically billed by a provider other than the ASC, and the provider received payment for them. The fourth radiology service is included in the payment for the procedure with which it was associated. Therefore, no separate payment was made to either "
256,"ASCs or hospital outpatient departments. With regard to anesthesia services, most services were billed by and paid to a provider other than an ASC or hospital. As a group, the costs of procedures performed in ASCs have a relatively consistent relationship with the costs of the APC groups to which they would be assigned under the OPPS. That is, the APC groups accurately reflect the relative costs of procedures performed in ASCs. We found that the ASC-to-APC cost ratios were more tightly distributed around th"
257,"eir median cost ratio than the OPPS-to-APC cost ratios were around their median cost ratio. Specifically, 45 percent of all procedures in our analysis fell within 0.10 points of the ASC-to-APC median cost ratio, and 33 percent of procedures fell within 0.10 points of the OPPS-to-APC median cost ratio. However, the costs of procedures in ASCs are substantially lower than costs for the same procedures in the hospital outpatient setting. The APC groups reflect the relative costs of procedures provided by ASCs "
258,"as well as they reflect the relative costs of procedures provided in the hospital outpatient department setting. In our analysis, we listed the procedures performed at ASCs and calculated the ratio of the cost of each procedure to the cost of the APC group to which it would have been assigned, referred to as the ASC-to-APC cost ratio. We then calculated similar cost ratios for the same procedures exclusively within the OPPS. To determine an OPPS-to-APC cost ratio, we divided individual procedures’ median co"
259,"sts, as calculated by CMS for the OPPS, by the median cost of their APC group. Our analysis of the cost ratios showed that the ASC-to-APC cost ratios were more tightly distributed around their median than were the OPPS-to-APC cost ratios; that is, there were more of them closer to the median. Specifically, 45 percent of procedures performed in ASCs fell within a 0.10 point range of the ASC-to-APC median cost ratio, and 33 percent of those procedures fell within a 0.10 point range of the OPPS-to-APC median c"
260,"ost ratio in the hospital outpatient department setting (see figs. 1 and 2). Therefore, there is less variation in the ASC setting between individual procedures’ costs and the costs of their assigned APC groups than there is in the hospital outpatient department setting. From this outcome, we determined that the OPPS APC groups could be used to pay for procedures in ASCs. The median costs of procedures performed in ASCs were generally lower than the median costs of their corresponding APC group under the OP"
261,"PS. Among all procedures in our analysis, the median ASC-to-APC cost ratio was 0.39. The ASC-to-APC cost ratios ranged from 0.02 to 3.34. When weighted by Medicare volume based on 2004 claims data, the median ASC- to-APC cost ratio was 0.84. We determined that the median OPPS-to-APC cost ratio was 1.04. This analysis shows that when compared to the median cost of the same APC group, procedures performed in ASCs had substantially lower costs than when those same procedures were performed in hospital outpatie"
262,"nt departments. Generally, there are many similarities between the additional services provided in ASCs and hospital outpatient departments with one of the top 20 procedures, and few resulted in an additional Medicare payment to ASCs or hospital outpatient departments. Although costs for individual procedures vary, in general, the median costs for procedures are lower in ASCs, relative to the median costs of their APC groups, than the median costs for the same procedures in the hospital outpatient departmen"
263,"t setting. The APC groups in the OPPS reflect the relative costs of procedures performed in ASCs in the same way that they reflect the relative costs of the same procedures when they are performed in hospital outpatient departments. Therefore, the APC groups could be applied to procedures performed in ASCs, and the OPPS could be used as the basis for an ASC payment system, eliminating the need for ASC surveys and providing for an annual revision of the ASC payment groups. We recommend that the Administrator"
264," of CMS implement a payment system for procedures performed in ASCs based on the OPPS. The Administrator should take into account the lower relative costs of procedures performed in ASCs compared to hospital outpatient departments in determining ASC payment rates. We received written comments on a draft of this report from CMS (see app. IV). We also received oral comments from external reviewers representing two ASC industry organizations, AAASC and FASA. In commenting on a draft of this report, CMS stated "
265,"that our recommendation is consistent with its August 2006 proposed revisions to the ASC payment system. Industry representatives who reviewed a draft of this report did not agree or disagree with our recommendation for executive action. They did, however, provide several comments on the draft report. The industry representatives noted that we did not analyze the survey results to examine differences in per-procedure costs among single-specialty and multi-specialty ASCs. Regarding this comment, we initially"
266," considered developing our survey sample stratified by ASC specialty type. However, because accurate data identifying ASCs’ specialties do not exist, we were unable to stratify our survey sample by specialty type. The industry representatives asked us to provide more explanation in our scope and methodology regarding our development of a relative weight scale for Medicare ASC-approved procedures to capture the general variation in resources associated with performing different procedures. We expanded the di"
267,"scussion of how we developed the relative weight scale in our methodology section. Reviewers also made technical comments, which we incorporated where appropriate. We are sending a copy of this report to the Administrator of CMS and appropriate congressional committees. The report is available at no charge on GAO’s Web site at http://www.gao.gov. We will also make copies available to others on request. If you or your staff members have any questions about this report, please contact me at (202) 512-7119 or "
268,"kingk@gao.gov. Contact points for our Offices of Congressional Relations and Public Affairs may be found on the last page of this report. GAO staff members who made significant contributions to this report are listed in appendix V. The Medicare payment rates for ambulatory surgical centers (ASC), along with those of other facilities, are adjusted to account for the variation in labor costs across the country. To calculate payment rates for individual ASCs, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) "
269,calculates the share of total costs that are labor-related and then adjusts ASCs’ labor- related share of costs based on a wage index calculated for specific geographic areas across the country. The wage index reflects how the average wage for health care personnel in each geographic area compares to the national average health care personnel wage. The geographic areas are intended to represent the separate labor markets in which health care facilities compete for employees. In setting the initial ASC payme
270,"nt rates for 1982, CMS determined from the first survey of ASCs that one-third of their costs were labor-related. The labor-related costs included employee salaries and fringe benefits, contractual personnel, and owners’ compensation for duties performed for the facility. To determine the payment rates for each individual ASC, CMS multiplied one-third of the payment rate for each procedure—the labor- related portion—by the local area wage index. Each ASC received the base payment rate for two-thirds of the "
271,"payment rate—the nonlabor-related portion—for each procedure. The sum of the labor-related and nonlabor- related portions equaled each ASC’s payment rate for each procedure. In 1990, when CMS revised the payment system based on a 1986 ASC survey, CMS found ASCs’ average labor-related share of costs to be 34.45 percent and used this percentage as the labor-related portion of the payment rate. In a 1998 proposed rule, CMS noted that ASCs’ share of labor-related costs as calculated from the 1994 ASC cost surve"
272,"y had increased to an average of 37.66 percent, slightly higher than the percentage calculated from the 1986 survey. However, CMS did not implement the 1998 proposal. Currently, the labor-related proportion of costs from CMS’s 1986 survey, 34.45 percent, is used for calculating ASC payment rates. Using 2004 cost data we received from 290 ASCs that responded to our survey request for information, we determined that the mean labor-related proportion of costs was 50 percent, and the range of the labor-related "
273,"costs for the middle 50 percent of our ASC facilities was 43 percent to 57 percent of total costs. To compare the delivery of procedures between ASCs and hospital outpatient departments, we analyzed Medicare claims data from 2003. To compare the relative costs of procedures performed in ASCs and hospital outpatient departments, we collected cost and procedure data from 2004 from a sample of Medicare-participating ASCs. We also interviewed officials at CMS and representatives from ASC industry organizations,"
274," specifically, the American Association of Ambulatory Surgery Centers (AAASC) and FASA, physician specialty societies, and nine ASCs. To compare the delivery of additional services provided with procedures performed in ASCs and hospital outpatient departments, we identified all additional services frequently billed in each setting when one of the top 20 procedures with the highest Medicare ASC claims volume is performed. These procedures represented approximately 75 percent of all Medicare ASC claims in 200"
275,"3. Using Medicare claims data for 2003, we identified beneficiaries receiving one of the top 20 procedures in either an ASC or hospital outpatient department, then identified any other claims for those beneficiaries from ASCs, hospital outpatient departments, durable medical equipment suppliers, and other Medicare part B providers. We identified claims for the beneficiaries on the day the procedure was performed and the day after. We created a list that included all additional services that were billed at l"
276,east 10 percent of the time with each of the top 20 procedures when they were performed in ASCs. We created a similar list of additional services for each of the top 20 procedures when they were performed in hospital outpatient departments. We then compared the lists for each of the top 20 procedures between the two settings to determine whether there were similarities in the additional services that were billed to Medicare. To compare the Medicare payments for procedures performed in ASCs and hospital outp
277,"atient departments, we identified whether any additional services included in our analysis resulted in an additional payment. We used Medicare claims data from the National Claims History (NCH) files. These data, which are used by the Medicare program to make payments to health care providers, are closely monitored by both CMS and the Medicare contractors that process, review, and pay claims for Medicare services. The data are subject to various internal controls, including checks and edits performed by the"
278," contractors before claims are submitted to CMS for payment approval. Although we did not review these internal controls, we did assess the reliability of the NCH data. First, we reviewed all existing information about the data, including the data dictionary and file layouts. We also interviewed experts at CMS who regularly use the data for evaluation and analysis. We found the data to be sufficiently reliable for the purposes of this report. To compare the relative costs of procedures performed in ASCs and"
279," hospital outpatient departments, we first compiled information on ASCs’ costs and procedures performed. Because there were no recent existing data on ASC costs, we surveyed 600 ASCs, randomly selected from all ASCs, to obtain their 2004 cost and procedure data. We received response data from 397 ASC facilities. We assessed the reliability of these data through several means. We identified incomplete and inconsistent survey responses within individual surveys and placed follow-up calls to respondents to com"
280,"plete or verify their responses. To ensure that survey response data were accurately transferred to electronic files for our analytic purposes, two analysts independently entered all survey responses. Any discrepancies between the two sets of entered responses were resolved. We performed electronic testing for errors in accuracy and completeness, including an analysis of costs per procedure. As a result of our data reliability testing, we determined that data from 290 responding facilities were sufficiently"
281," reliable for our purposes. Our nonresponse analysis showed that there was no geographic bias among the facilities responding to our survey. The responding facilities performed more Medicare services than the average for all ASCs in our sample. To allocate ASCs’ total costs among the individual procedures they perform, we developed a method to allocate the portion of an ASC’s costs accounted for by each procedure. We constructed a relative weight scale for Medicare ASC-approved procedures that captures the "
282,"general variation in resources associated with performing different procedures. The resources we used were the clinical staff time, surgical supplies, and surgical equipment used during the procedures. We used cost and quantity data on these resources from information CMS had collected for the purpose of setting the practice expense component of physician payment rates. For procedures for which CMS had no data on the resources used, we used information we collected from medical specialty societies and physi"
283,"cians who work for CMS. We summed the costs of the resources for each procedure and created a relative weight scale by dividing the total cost of each procedure by the average cost across all of the procedures. We assessed the reliability of these data through several means. We compared electronic CMS data with the original document sources for a large sample of records, performed electronic testing for errors in accuracy and completeness, and reviewed data for reasonableness. Based on these efforts, we det"
284,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and nonphysician practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
285,"ndirect costs. We defined direct costs as those associated with the clinical staff, equipment, and supplies used during the procedure. Indirect costs included all remaining costs, such as support and administrative staff, building expenses, and outside services purchased. To allocate each facility’s direct costs across the procedures it performed, we applied our relative weight scale. We allocated indirect costs equally across all procedures performed by the facility. For each procedure performed by a respo"
286,"nding ASC facility, we summed its allocated direct and indirect costs to determine a total cost for the procedure. To obtain a per-procedure cost across all ASCs, we arrayed the calculated costs for all ASCs performing that procedure and identified the median cost. To compare per-procedure costs for ASCs and hospital outpatient departments, we first obtained from CMS the list of ambulatory payment classification (APC) groups used for the outpatient prospective payment system (OPPS) and the procedures assign"
287,"ed to each APC group. We also obtained from CMS the OPPS median cost of each procedure and the median cost of each APC group. We then calculated a ratio between each procedure’s ASC median cost, as determined by the survey, and the median cost of each procedure’s corresponding APC group under the OPPS, referred to as the ASC-to-APC cost ratio. We also calculated a ratio between each ASC procedure’s median cost under the OPPS and the median cost of the procedure’s APC group, using the data obtained from CMS,"
288," referred to as the OPPS-to-APC cost ratio. To evaluate the difference in procedure costs between the two settings, we compared the ASC-to- APC and OPPS-to-APC cost ratios. To assess how well the relative costs of procedures in the OPPS, defined by their assignment to APC groups, reflect the relative costs of procedures in the ASC setting, we evaluated the distribution of the ASC-to-APC and OPPS-to-APC cost ratios. To calculate the percentage of labor-related costs among our sample ASCs, for each ASC, we di"
289,"vided total labor costs by total costs, after deducting costs not covered by Medicare’s facility payment. We then determined the range of the percentage of labor-related costs among all of our ASCs and between the 25th percentile and the 75th percentile, as well as the mean and median percentage of labor-related costs. We performed our work from April 2004 through October 2006 in accordance with generally accepted government auditing standards. Appendix III: Additional Procedures Billed with the Top 20 ASC "
290,"Procedures, 2003 (percentage) N/A (percentage) In addition to the contact named above, key contributors to this report were Nancy A. Edwards, Assistant Director; Kevin Dietz; Beth Cameron Feldpush; Marc Feuerberg; and Nora Hoban."
291,"IRS’s mission is to provide America’s taxpayers top-quality service by helping them to understand and meet their tax responsibilities and to enforce the law with integrity and fairness to all. During fiscal year 2015, IRS collected more than $3.3 trillion; processed more than 243 million tax returns and other forms; and issued more than $403 billion in tax refunds. IRS employs about 90,000 people in its Washington, D.C., headquarters and at more than 550 offices in all 50 states, U.S. territories, and some "
292,"U.S. embassies and consulates. Each filing season IRS provides assistance to tens of millions of taxpayers over the phone, through written correspondence, online, and face-to-face. The scale of these operations alone presents challenges. In carrying out its mission, IRS relies extensively on computerized information systems, which it must effectively secure to protect sensitive financial and taxpayer data for the collection of taxes, processing of tax returns, and enforcement of federal tax laws. Accordingl"
293,"y, it is critical for IRS to effectively implement information security controls and an agency- wide information security program in accordance with federal law and guidance. Cyber incidents can adversely affect national security, damage public health and safety, and compromise sensitive information. Regarding IRS specifically, two recent incidents illustrate the impact on taxpayer and other sensitive information: In June 2015, the Commissioner of the IRS testified that unauthorized third parties had gained"
294," access to taxpayer information from its Get Transcript application. According to officials, criminals used taxpayer- specific data acquired from non-department sources to gain unauthorized access to information on approximately 100,000 tax accounts. These data included Social Security information, dates of birth, and street addresses. In an August 2015 update, IRS reported this number to be about 114,000, and that an additional 220,000 accounts had been inappropriately accessed. In a February 2016 update, "
295,"the agency reported that an additional 390,000 accounts had been accessed. Thus, about 724,000 accounts were reportedly affected. The online Get Transcript service has been unavailable since May 2015. In March 2016, IRS stated that as part of its ongoing security review, it had temporarily suspended the Identity Protection Personal Identification Number (IP PIN) service on IRS.gov. The IP PIN is a single-use identification number provided to taxpayers who are victims of identity theft (IDT) to help prevent "
296,"future IDT refund fraud. The service on IRS’s website allowed taxpayers to retrieve their IP PINs online by passing IRS’s authentication checks. These checks confirm taxpayer identity by asking for personal, financial and tax-related information. The IRS stated that it was conducting further review of the IP PIN service and is looking at further strengthening the security features before resuming service. As of April 7, the online service was still suspended. The Commissioner of Internal Revenue has overall"
297," responsibility for ensuring the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the information and systems that support the agency and its operations. Within IRS, the senior agency official responsible for information security is the Associate CIO, who heads the IRS Information Technology Cybersecurity organization. As we reported in March 2016, IRS has implemented numerous controls over key financial and tax processing systems; however, it had not always effectively implemented access and other controls,"
298," including elements of its information security program. Access controls are intended to prevent, limit, and detect unauthorized access to computing resources, programs, information, and facilities. These controls include identification and authentication, authorization, cryptography, audit and monitoring, and physical security controls, among others. In our most recent review we found that IRS had improved access controls, but some weaknesses remain. Identifying and authenticating users—such as through use"
299,"r account-password combinations—provides the basis for establishing accountability and controlling access to a system. IRS established policies for identification and authentication, including requiring multifactor authentication for local and network access accounts and establishing password complexity and expiration requirements. It also improved identification and authentication controls by, for example, expanding the use of an automated mechanism to centrally manage, apply, and verify password requireme"
300,"nts. However, weaknesses in identification and authentication controls remained. For example, the agency used easily guessable passwords on servers supporting key systems. Authorization controls limit what actions users are able to perform after being allowed into a system and should be based on the concept of “least privilege,” granting users the least amount of rights and privileges necessary to perform their duties. While IRS established policies for authorizing access to its systems, it continued to per"
301,"mit excessive access in some cases. For example, users were granted rights and permissions in excess of what they needed to perform their duties, including for an application used to process electronic tax payment information and a database on a human resources system. Cryptography controls protect sensitive data and computer programs by rendering data unintelligible to unauthorized users and protecting the integrity of transmitted or stored data. IRS policies require the use of encryption and it continued "
302,"to expand its use of encryption to protect sensitive data. However, key systems we reviewed had not been configured to encrypt sensitive user authentication data. Audit and monitoring is the regular collection, review, and analysis of events on systems and networks in order to detect, respond to, and investigate unusual activity. IRS established policies and procedures for auditing and monitoring its systems and continued to enhance its capability by, for example, implementing an automated mechanism to log "
303,"user activity on its access request and approval system. But it had not established logging for two key applications used to support the transfer of financial data and access and manage taxpayer accounts; nor was the agency consistently maintaining key system and application audit plans. Physical security controls, such as physical access cards, limit access to an organization’s overall facility and areas housing sensitive IT components. IRS established policies for physically protecting its computer resour"
304,"ces and physical security controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating secur"
305,"ely. Specifically, while IRS developed policies for managing the configuration of its information technology (IT) systems and improved some configuration management controls, it did not, for example, ensure security patch updates were applied in a timely manner to databases supporting 2 key systems we reviewed, including a patch that had been available since August 2012. To its credit, IRS had established contingency plans for the systems we reviewed, which help ensure that when unexpected events occur, cri"
306,"tical operations can continue without interruption or can be promptly resumed, and that information resources are protected. Specifically, IRS had established policies for developing contingency plans for its information systems and for testing those plans, as well as for implementing and enforcing backup procedures. Moreover, the agency had documented and tested contingency plans for its systems and improved continuity of operations controls for several systems. Nevertheless, the control weaknesses can be "
307,"attributed in part to IRS’s inconsistent implementation of elements of its agency-wide information security program. The agency established a comprehensive framework for its program, including assessing risk for its systems, developing system security plans, and providing employees with security awareness and specialized training. However, IRS had not updated key mainframe policies and procedures to address issues such as comprehensively auditing and monitoring access. In addition, the agency had not fully "
308,"addressed previously identified deficiencies or ensured that its corrective actions were effective. During our most recent review, IRS told us it had addressed 28 of our prior recommendations; however, we determined that 9 of these had not been effectively implemented. The collective effect of the deficiencies in information security from prior years that continued to exist in fiscal year 2015, along with the new deficiencies we identified, are serious enough to merit the attention of those charged with gov"
309,"ernance of IRS and therefore represented a significant deficiency in IRS’s internal control over financial reporting systems as of September 30, 2015. To assist IRS in fully implementing its agency-wide information security program, we made two new recommendations to more effectively implement security-related policies and plans. In addition, to assist IRS in strengthening security controls over the financial and tax processing systems we reviewed, we made 43 technical recommendations in a separate report w"
310,"ith limited distribution to address 26 new weaknesses in access controls and configuration management. Implementing these recommendations—in addition to the 49 outstanding recommendations from previous audits—will help IRS improve its controls for identifying and authenticating users, limiting users’ access to the minimum necessary to perform their job-related functions, protecting sensitive data when they are stored or in transit, auditing and monitoring system activities, and physically securing its IT fa"
311,"cilities and resources. Table 1 below provides the number of our prior recommendations to IRS that were not implemented at the beginning of our fiscal year 2015 audit, how many were resolved by the end of the audit, new recommendations, and the total number of outstanding recommendations at the conclusion of the audit. In commenting on drafts of our reports presenting the results of our fiscal year 2015 audit, the IRS Commissioner stated that while the agency agreed with our new recommendations, it will rev"
312,"iew them to ensure that its actions include sustainable fixes that implement appropriate security controls balanced against IT and human capital resource limitations. In addition, IRS can take steps to improve its response to data breaches. Specifically, in December 2013 we reported on the extent to which data breach policies at eight agencies, including IRS, adhered to requirements and guidance set forth by the Office of Management and Budget and the National Institute of Standards and Technology. While th"
313,"e agencies in our review generally had policies and procedures in place that reflected the major elements of an effective data breach response program, implementation of these policies and procedures was not consistent. With respect to IRS, we determined that its policies and procedures generally reflected key practices, although the agency did not require considering the number of affected individuals as a factor when determining if affected individuals should be notified of a suspected breach. In addition"
314,", IRS did not document lessons learned from periodic analyses of its breach response efforts. We recommended that IRS correct these weaknesses, but the agency has yet to fully address them. The importance of protecting taxpayer information is further highlighted by the billions of dollars that have been lost to IDT refund fraud, which continues to be an evolving threat. IRS develops estimates of the extent of IDT refund fraud to help direct its efforts to identify and prevent the crime. While its estimates "
315,"have inherent uncertainty, IRS estimated that it prevented or recovered $22.5 billion in fraudulent IDT refunds in filing season 2014 (see figure 1). However, IRS also estimated, where data were available, that it paid $3.1 billion in fraudulent IDT refunds. Because of the difficulties in knowing the amount of undetectable fraud, the actual amount could differ from these estimates. IRS has taken steps to address IDT refund fraud; however, it remains a persistent and continually changing threat. IRS recogniz"
316,"ed the challenge of IDT refund fraud in its fiscal year 2014-2017 strategic plan and increased resources dedicated to combating IDT and other types of refund fraud. In fiscal year 2015, IRS reported that it staffed more than 4,000 full-time equivalents and spent about $470 million on all refund fraud and IDT activities. As described above, IRS received an additional $290 million for fiscal year 2016 to improve customer service, IDT identification and prevention, and cybersecurity efforts and the agency plan"
317,"s to use $16.1 million of this funding to help prevent IDT refund fraud, among other things. The administration requested an additional $90 million and an additional 491 full-time equivalents for fiscal year 2017 to help prevent IDT refund fraud and reduce other improper payments. IRS estimates that this $90 million investment in IDT refund fraud and other improper payment prevention would help it protect $612 million in revenue in fiscal year 2017, as well as protect revenue in future years. IRS has taken "
318,"action to improve customer service related to IDT refund fraud. For example, between the 2011 and 2015 filing seasons, IRS experienced a 430 percent increase in the number of telephone calls to its Identity Theft Toll Free Line—as of March 19, 2016, IRS had received over 1.1 million calls to this line. Moreover, 77 percent of callers seeking assistance on this telephone line received it compared to 54 percent during the same period last year. Average wait times during the same period have also decreased—tax"
319,"payers are waiting an average of 14 minutes to talk to an assistor, a decrease from 27 minutes last year. IRS also works with third parties, such as tax preparation industry participants, states, and financial institutions to try to detect and prevent IDT refund fraud. In March 2015, the IRS Commissioner convened a Security Summit with industry and states to improve information sharing and authentication. IRS officials said that 40 state departments of revenue and 20 tax industry participants have officiall"
320,"y signed a partnership agreement to enact recommendations developed and agreed to by summit participants. IRS plans to invest a portion of the $16.1 million it received in fiscal year 2016 into identity theft prevention and refund fraud mitigation actions from the Security Summit. These efforts include developing an Information Sharing and Analysis Center where IRS, states, and industry can share information to combat IDT refund fraud. Even though IRS has prioritized combating IDT refund fraud, fraudsters a"
321,"dapt their schemes to identify weaknesses in IDT defenses, such as gaining access to taxpayers’ tax return transcripts through IRS’s online Get Transcript service. According to IRS officials, with access to tax transcripts, fraudsters can create historically consistent returns that are hard to distinguish from a return filed by a legitimate taxpayer, potentially making it more difficult for IRS to identify and detect IDT refund fraud. Without additional action by IRS and Congress, the risk of issuing fraudu"
322,"lent IDT refunds could grow. We previously made recommendations to IRS to help it better combat IDT refund fraud: Authentication. In January 2015, we reported that IRS’s authentication tools have limitations and recommended that IRS assess the costs, benefits and risks of its authentication tools. For example, individuals can obtain an e-file PIN by providing their name, Social Security number, date of birth, address, and filing status for IRS’s e-file PIN application. Identity thieves can easily find this "
323,"information, allowing them to bypass some, if not all, of IRS’s automatic checks, according to our analysis and interviews with tax software and return preparer associations and companies. After filing an IDT return using an e-file PIN, the fraudulent return would proceed through IRS’s normal return processing. In November 2015, IRS officials told us that the agency had developed guidance for its Identity Assurance Office to assess costs, benefits, and risk, and that its analysis will inform decision-making"
324," on authentication-related issues. IRS also noted that the methods of analysis for the authentication tools will vary depending on the different costs and other factors for authenticating taxpayers in different channels, such as online, phone, or in-person. In February 2016, IRS officials told us that the Identity Assurance Office plans to complete a strategic plan for taxpayer authentication across the agency in September 2016. While IRS is taking steps, it will still be vulnerable until it completes and u"
325,"ses the results of its analysis of costs, benefits, and risk to inform decision-making. Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement (W-2) Pre-refund Matching. In August 2014 we reported that the wage information that employers report on Form W-2 is not available to IRS until after it issues most refunds, and that if IRS had access to W-2 data earlier, it could match such information to taxpayers’ returns and identify discrepancies before issuing billions of dollars of fraudulent IDT refunds. We recommended that IRS as"
326,"sess the costs and benefits of accelerating W-2 deadlines. In response to our recommendation, IRS provided us with a report in September 2015 discussing (1) adjustments to IRS systems and work processes needed to use accelerated W-2 information, (2) the potential impacts on internal and external stakeholders, and (3) other changes needed to match W-2 data to tax returns prior to issuing refunds, such as delaying refunds until W-2 data are available. In December 2015, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2"
327,"016 amended the tax code to accelerate W-2 filing deadlines to January 31. IRS’s report will help IRS determine how to best implement pre- refund W-2 matching, given the new January 31st deadline for filing W-2s. Additionally, we suggested that Congress should consider providing the Secretary of the Treasury with the regulatory authority to lower the threshold for electronic filing of W-2s, which could make more W-2 information available to IRS earlier. External Leads. IRS partners with financial institutio"
328,"ns and other external parties to obtain information about emerging IDT refund trends and fraudulent returns that have passed through IRS detection systems. In August 2014, we reported that IRS provides limited feedback to external parties on IDT external leads they submit and offers external parties limited general information on IDT refund fraud trends and recommended that IRS provide actionable feedback to all lead generating third parties. In November 2015, IRS reported that it had developed a database t"
329,"o track leads submitted by financial institutions and the results of those leads. IRS also stated that it had held two sessions with financial institutions to provide feedback on external leads provided to IRS. In December 2015, IRS officials stated that the agency sent a customer satisfaction survey asking financial institutions for feedback on the external leads process and was considering other ways to provide feedback to financial institutions. In April 2016, IRS officials stated they plan to analyze pr"
330,"eliminary survey results by mid-April 2016. Additionally, IRS officials reported that the agency shared information with financial institutions in March 2016 and plans to do so on a quarterly basis, with the next information sharing session scheduled in June 2016. IRS and industry partners have characterized that returns processing and refund issuance during this filing season has been generally smooth. Through April 1, 2016, IRS had processed about 95 million returns and issued 76 million refunds totaling "
331,"about $215 billion. While IRS experienced a major system failure in February that halted returns processing for about a day, the agency reported that it had minimal effect on overall processing of returns and refunds. In addition to filing returns, many taxpayers often call IRS for assistance. IRS’s telephone service has generally improved in 2016 over last year. From January 1 through March 19, 2016 IRS received about 35.4 million calls to its automated and live assistor telephone lines, about a 2 percent "
332,"decrease compared to the same period last year. Of the 13.4 million calls seeking live assistance, IRS had answered 9.1 million calls—a 75 percent increase over the 5.2 million calls answered during the same period last year. IRS anticipated that 65 percent of callers seeking live assistance would receive it this filing season, which runs through April 18, and 47 percent of callers would receive live assistance through the entire 2016 fiscal year. As of March 19, 2016, 75 percent of callers had received liv"
333,"e assistance, an increase from 38 percent during the same period last year. Further, the average wait time to speak to an assistor also decreased from 24 to 9 minutes. As we reported in March 2016, however, IRS’s telephone level of service for the full fiscal year has yet to reach the levels it had achieved in earlier years. IRS attributed this year’s service improvement to a number of factors. Of the additional $290 million IRS received in December 2015, it allocated $178.4 million (61.5 percent) for taxpa"
334,"yer services to make measurable improvements in its telephone level of service. With the funds, IRS hired 1,000 assistors who began answering taxpayer calls in March, in addition to the approximately 2,000 seasonal assistors it had hired in fall 2015. To help answer taxpayer calls before March, IRS officials told us that they detailed 275 staff from one of its compliance functions to answer telephone calls. IRS officials said they believe this step was necessary because the additional funding came too late "
335,"in the year to hire and train assistors to fully cover the filing season. IRS also plans to use about 600 full-time equivalents of overtime for assistors to answer telephone calls and respond to correspondence in fiscal year 2016, compared to fewer than 60 full-time equivalents of overtime used in fiscal year 2015. In December 2014, we recommended that IRS systematically and periodically compare its telephone service to the best in business to identify gaps between actual and desired performance. IRS disagr"
336,"eed with this recommendation, noting that it is difficult to identify comparable organizations. We do not agree with IRS’s position; many organizations run call centers that would provide ample opportunities to benchmark IRS’s performance. In fall 2015, Department of the Treasury (Treasury) and IRS officials said they had no plans to develop a comprehensive customer service strategy or specific goals for telephone service tied to the best in the business and customer expectations. Without such a strategy, T"
337,"reasury and IRS can neither measure nor effectively communicate to Congress the types and levels of customer service taxpayers should expect and the resources needed to reach those levels. Therefore, in December 2015 we suggested that Congress consider requiring that Treasury work with IRS to develop a comprehensive customer service strategy. In April 2016, IRS officials told us that the agency established a team to consider our prior work in developing this strategy or benchmarking its telephone service. I"
338,"n summary, while IRS has made progress in implementing information security controls, it needs to continue to address weaknesses in access controls and configuration management and consistently implement all elements of its information security program. The risks IRS and the public are exposed to have been illustrated by recent incidents involving public- facing applications, highlighting the importance of securing systems that contain sensitive taxpayer and financial data. In addition, fully implementing k"
339,"ey elements of a breach response program will help ensure that when breaches of sensitive data do occur, their impact on affected individuals will be minimized. Weaknesses in information security can also increase the risk posed by identity theft refund fraud. IRS needs to establish an approach for addressing identity theft refund fraud that is informed by assessing the cost, benefits, and risks of IRS’s various authentication options and improving the reliability of fraud estimates. While this year’s tax f"
340,"iling season has generally gone smoothly and IRS has improved customer service, it still needs to develop a comprehensive approach to customer service that will meet the needs of taxpayers while ensuring that their sensitive information is adequately protected. Chairman Hatch, Ranking Member Wyden, and Members of the Committee, this concludes my statement. I look forward to answering any questions that you may have at this time. If you have any questions regarding this statement, please contact Gregory C. W"
341,"ilshusen at (202) 512-6244 or wilshuseng@gao.gov, Nancy Kingsbury at (202) 512-2928 or kingsburyn@gao.gov, or James R. McTigue, Jr. at (202) 512-9110 or mctiguej@gao.gov or Jessica K. Lucas-Judy at (202) 512-9110 or LucasJudyJ@gao.gov. Other key contributors to this statement include Jeffrey Knott, Neil A. Pinney, and Joanna M. Stamatiades (assistant directors); Dawn E. Bidne; Mark Canter; James Cook; Shannon J. Finnegan; Lee McCracken; Justin Palk; J. Daniel Paulk; Erin Saunders Rath; and Daniel Swartz. Th"
342,"is is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. The published product may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately."
343,"In 1991, we reported that, historically, INS leadership had allowed INS’ organizational structure to become decentralized without adequate controls. Specifically, its regional structure had created geographical separation among INS programs and hampered resource allocation and consistent program implementation. The field structure designed to carry out INS’ enforcement functions was bifurcated between districts and Border Patrol sectors, resulting in uncoordinated, overlapping programs. In addition, only a "
344,"single senior INS headquarters manager supervised INS’ 33 district directors and 21 Border Patrol chiefs. In 1994, with the appointment of a new Commissioner, INS implemented an organizational structure intended to remedy at least two problems. First, the headquarters operations office’s unrealistically large span of control resulting in uneven and poorly coordinated field performance. Second, the lack of focus on program planning resulting from the operations office’s preoccupation with matters that should"
345," have been handled by field managers. The Commissioner shifted some management authority to officials closer to field activities. While INS made some progress toward achieving its reorganization goals, its organizational structure is still in a state of flux and some problems persist. For example, in 1997 we reported that the responsibilities and authority of the Office of Field Operations and Office of Programs were unclear. We recommended, among other things, that the INS Commissioner provide written guid"
346,"ance on (1) the responsibilities and authorities of these two offices and (2) the appropriate coordination and communication methods between these two offices, and between the Office of Programs and field offices. Although INS has taken some steps to implement our 1997 recommendations, they have yet to be completed because, according to INS, these recommendations relate to INS restructuring that is currently under study. As previously mentioned, INS’ mission involves carrying out two primary functions—enfor"
347,"cing immigration laws and providing services or benefits to eligible legal immigrants. These functions often translate into competing priorities at the program level that need to be balanced for effective program implementation. All too often, the emphasis placed on one over the other results in ineffective enforcement or poor benefit delivery. An example of this inability to balance these priorities can be found in our September 2000 report on the processing of visas for specialty occupations, called H-1B "
348,"visas. The performance appraisal process for staff that evaluates the merits of applications filed with INS (called adjudicators) focused mainly on the number of applications reviewed, not the quality of the review. INS rewarded those adjudicators who processed the greatest number of applications over those who processed fewer applications. Some adjudicators told us that because of pressure to adjudicate cases quickly, they did not routinely use investigations staff to look into potentially fraudulent appli"
349,"cations because doing so would take more time and reduce the number of applications they could complete. INS investigators following up on approved applications found instances of fraud; for example, they found employers who created shell corporations and false credentials and documents for aliens ineligible for H-1B employment. We found other examples where the goal of providing timely service delivery has negatively impacted INS’ enforcement goal of providing benefits to only eligible aliens. In our May 2"
350,"001 report on INS application processing, we stated that INS’ policy is to grant work authorization to applicants who file for adjustment of status to that of a permanent resident before it adjudicates their application. This policy is intended to prevent aliens from having to wait for INS to adjudicate their application before they can work. However, in fiscal year 2000 INS denied about 80,000 applicants for adjustment of status (about 14 percent of all the adjustment of status applications completed) and "
351,"had to revoke their work authorization. Because these aliens had work authorization while waiting for their application to be processed, they could have developed a work history that may have facilitated their obtaining employment even after INS’ efforts to officially revoke their work authorization. A senior INS official stated that the policy to grant work authorization before the adjustment of status application is decided is intended to be fair to the majority of adjustment of status applicants who are "
352,"approved. An investigation into INS’ initiative to process naturalization applications more quickly found the initiative to be fraught with quality and integrity problems resulting in ineligible applicants receiving citizenship. According to a Department of Justice Office of Inspector General (OIG) report on INS’ Citizenship USA initiative launched in 1995, INS made the timely completion of naturalization applications its guiding principle at the expense of accuracy and quality in determining eligibility. A"
353,"s a result of the problems found, INS instituted naturalization quality control procedures to enhance the integrity of the process. We are finding a similar situation in our ongoing review for this subcommittee of INS’ efforts to deter immigration benefit fraud. We will discuss this and other issues related to immigration benefit fraud in a report to be released later this year. Other researchers have also found that INS had difficulty in balancing its enforcement and service delivery priorities. For exampl"
354,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Icelandic passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
355,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Icelandic passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Icelandic passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
356,"immigration benefits process in 1999 found that INS needed to strengthen the integrity of the process. The study found that INS had no standard quality control program for ensuring that applications were processed consistently. Although some adjudicators believed the number of fraudulent applications submitted was significantly higher than the number they were detecting, they received little training in fraud detection. According to the report, some management and operations personnel indicated that perform"
357,"ance evaluations in large part are based on the quantity of applications processed. The report concluded that whether employees receive incentives and rewards depends more on the quantity of applications processed rather than on fraud detection. Therefore, adjudicators had no incentives to actively search out fraud. As we reported in our applications processing report, despite these pressures to complete applications more quickly, INS’ backlog of applications increased to about 4 million applications by the"
358," end of fiscal year 2000, a four-fold increase since 1994. As of September 30, 2001 about 767,000 applicants out of almost 3 million with pending applications had been waiting at least 21 months for INS to process their application. In our 1997 management report, we found that poor communication was a problem, especially between headquarters and field units. For example, field and policy manuals were out of date and there was not one place that program staff could go for direction. Over one half of the empl"
359,"oyees we surveyed in preparing that report believed that INS had poor communications and that information was disseminated poorly. As noted earlier in our testimony, how INS’ Office of Programs and Office of Field Operations were to coordinate was still unclear. Our recent work shows that coordination and communication is still a problem. For example, although both the Border Patrol and INS’ Office of Investigations have anti-smuggling units that conduct alien smuggling investigations, these units operate t"
360,"hrough separate chains of command with different reporting structures. In May 2000, we reported that alien smuggling was a growing problem, and that the Border Patrol and Investigations anti-smuggling units operated autonomously, resulting in a lack of program coordination. Further, this lack of coordination sometimes led to different anti-smuggling units opening investigations on the same target. INS Investigations officials told us that the autonomy of the individual units and the lack of a single chain o"
361,"f command to manage INS’ anti-smuggling investigations were major obstacles to building a more effective anti-smuggling program. Communicating the necessary information to the appropriate individuals has also been a problem. In our H-1B report, we stated that adjudicators told us that they did not have easy access to case-specific information that would have helped them correctly decide whether an application should be approved or denied. For example, evidence of a fraudulent employer or falsified worker cr"
362,"edentials either was not available to the adjudicator or could only be accessed through a time-consuming and complicated process. Consequently, a previously denied application could be resubmitted and approved by a different adjudicator. At the time of our review, INS officials told us that INS was in the process of upgrading the computer system that tracks H-1B applications, which could make more accurate and up to date information available on-line for adjudicators. Our work and the work of an INS contrac"
363,"tor both found that INS did not have a structure in place to manage the information that adjudicators needed to make correct decisions. Information systems were not easily accessible to all adjudicators, so these systems were generally not queried as part of the adjudication process. INS had no single repository of information where adjudicators could find the most up to date information on such things as adjudication processes and legal and regulatory policies. In one case, the lack of communication and un"
364,"clear policies and procedures had tragic consequences. In January 1999, police in Texas obtained a warrant for the arrest of Rafael Resendez-Ramirez, the “railway killer” who traveled around the United States by freight train and committed murders near railroad lines. In early 1999 police contacted INS Investigations staff in Houston Texas several times about placing a “border lookout” for Resendez-Ramirez in case he was apprehended at the border. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, none of the"
365," Investigations staff contacted by the police thought to inform the police about the existence of IDENT, INS’ automated fingerprint identification system. The Investigations staff also failed to enter a lookout in IDENT in case Resendez-Ramirez was apprehended trying to cross the border. On June 1, 1999, the Border Patrol apprehended Resendez-Ramirez trying to cross illegally and had him processed through the IDENT system. Because no border lookout had been placed, however, the Border Patrol voluntarily ret"
366,"urned him to Mexico in accordance with standard Border Patrol practices. He subsequently returned illegally to the United States and committed four more murders before he was captured. INS’ Houston investigations staff provided OIG investigators with various reasons as to why they did not mention IDENT or its lookout capability to police or enter a lookout in IDENT, including the following: They were unfamiliar with IDENT and how it worked. They never received any IDENT training. They were unaware IDENT had"
367," a lookout feature. They thought IDENT was a system primarily for the Border Patrol to use. The OIG concluded that the lack of knowledge about IDENT was largely the result of broader problems in the way INS implemented and monitored IDENT. INS failed to (1) (1) ensure that components outside of the Border Patrol, such as Investigations, understood IDENT policies, particularly the lookout policy and (2) provide adequate IDENT training for all INS staff. INS and the FBI are currently working on integrating ID"
368,"ENT with the FBI’s automated fingerprint system to improve the quality and accuracy of criminal identification so that such mistakes can be averted in the future. Effective communication has also been a problem between INS and local communities. In August 2001, we reported that since 1994 as INS’ Border Patrol has increased enforcement efforts in certain locations as part of its strategy to deter illegal entry along the southwest border, illegal alien traffic shifted to other locations. Officials from some "
369,"border communities told us that they were caught by surprise by the increase in the number of illegal aliens apprehended in their communities. INS has recognized the need to improve communications with the public regarding its strategy and its potential implications and has increased its outreach efforts. INS has had long-standing difficulty developing and fielding information systems to support its program operations. In 1990, we reported that INS managers and field officials did not have adequate, reliabl"
370,"e, and timely information to effectively carry out the Service’s mission. We also reported that INS had not conducted a comprehensive agency-wide information needs assessment. As a result, program and management data were kept in a loose collection of automated systems as well as a number of ad-hoc labor-intensive manual systems. Effectively using information technology continues to remain a challenge for INS. In August 2000, we reported that INS did not have a “blueprint” to guide the development of its in"
371,"formation systems. The absence of such a plan increases the risk that the information systems in which hundreds of millions of dollars are invested each year will not be well integrated or compatible and will not support mission needs. In December 2000, we reported that INS had limited capability to effectively manage its planned and ongoing information technology investments. While INS has some important information technology management capabilities in place, it has to do considerable work to fully implem"
372,"ent mature and effective processes. The Department of Justice agreed with our recommendation that INS develop and submit a plan to Justice for implementing investment management process improvements. INS is in the process of developing this plan. The lack of adequate information technology systems has significantly impacted INS’ ability to perform its core missions. As we reported in our applications processing report, INS headquarters and field staff cited automation problems as the number one factor affec"
373,"ting INS’ ability to process applications in a timely manner to reduce backlogs. INS has no national case management system for applications filed at its 33 district offices. Most of these offices process applications manually. As a result, these offices cannot determine the number of pending cases, identify problem areas or bottlenecks, establish processing priorities, deploy staff based on workload, and ensure cases are processed in the order received. Due to the lack of any automated system, staff spend "
374,"considerable time responding to applicants’ inquires on the status of their case, which takes time away from application processing. Existing INS systems used to process applications do not provide accurate and reliable data. In our applications processing report we stated that the system INS Service Centers use to process some applications frequently fails to operate and does not always update data to INS’ mainframe computer as it should. This lack of automation has resulted in INS expending considerable t"
375,"ime and effort to obtain the data it needs. In our applications processing report we also stated that lack of reliable data was the primary reason INS undertook a time-consuming and costly hand-count of all pending applications in September 2000. INS undertook the hand-count to get an accurate count of pending applications hoping to obtain an unqualified opinion on its fiscal year 2000 financial statements. According to INS officials, the cost to complete this hand-count was high in terms of lost production"
376," and staff time. INS suspended nearly all case processing for 2-3 weeks. Due to the lack of accurate data in its computer systems, INS will have to do another hand-count of all pending applications at the end of fiscal year 2001 if it hopes to obtain an unqualified opinion on its financial statement. As a result of this lack of accurate data, INS has also approved more visas than the Congress has allowed. According to an INS contractor study, INS’ system that tracks these visas was not designed to keep a ru"
377,"nning total of the number of visas issued and to compare it against the annual limit to ensure that only the allowable number is approved. Consequently, in fiscal year 1999, INS approved approximately 137,000 to 138,000 H-1B visas, well over the 115,000 limit. Program management issues at INS have caused continuing concern. Our work indicates that INS needs to improve its program management in several fundamental areas, including having efficient processes and clear policies and procedures, providing adequa"
378,"te staff training, and aligning its workforce with its workload. The INS contractor study on immigration benefits processing found that INS’ processes were inefficient. For example, INS staff spends considerable time re-entering the same data into various INS computer systems. INS did not consistently adjudicate applications because the procedures used to process applications varied by office, most field offices allowed adjudicators to review cases using minimal guidelines, and standard quality controls wer"
379,e lacking. The study made numerous recommendations on how to make the processes more efficient and improve quality control. We stated in our applications processing report that INS was developing a strategic plan to reengineer applications processing. INS will make decisions regarding the contractor’s recommendations after completing two related strategic plans - the plan to reengineer applications processing and the information technology strategic plan. Both are in the early planning stages. INS estimated
380," that it will take 5 years or more to develop and implement the reengineered processes and implement a service-wide automated system to process applications. Adequate staff training is also a critical aspect of program management. As noted earlier in our testimony, an INS contractor study found that INS adjudicators received little training in fraud detection. According to a November 2000 INS report prepared as part of INS’ Government Performance and Results Act reporting requirements, the INS workforce is "
381,"not well supported in terms of training. Advanced training classes have been cut back or delayed. According to the report, because of the growing workforce and these training cutbacks, INS will have a larger portion of its workforce that is relatively inexperienced and inadequately trained for its work."
382,"While TCE and perchlorate are both DOD-classified emerging contaminants, there are key distinctions between the contaminants that affect the extent to which they are regulated, and the information that may be needed before further steps are taken to protect human health and the environment. Since 1989, a maximum contaminant level (MCL) under the Safe Drinking Water Act has been in place for TCE. In contrast, EPA has not adopted an MCL for perchlorate, although recent government- sponsored studies have raise"
383,"d concerns that even low-levels of exposure to perchlorate may pose serious risks to infants and fetuses of pregnant women. We provided details about EPA’s evolving standards for TCE and the evolving knowledge of its health effects in our May 2007 report and June 2007 testimony on issues related to drinking water contamination on Camp Lejeune. TCE is a colorless liquid with a sweet, chloroform-like odor that is used mainly as a degreaser for metal parts. The compound is also a component in adhesives, lubric"
384,"ants, paints, varnishes, paint strippers, and pesticides. At one time, TCE was used as an extraction solvent for cosmetics and drug products and as a dry-cleaning agent; however, its use for these purposes has been discontinued. DOD has used the chemical in a wide variety of industrial and maintenance processes. More recently, the department has used TCE to clean sensitive computer circuit boards in military equipment such as tanks and fixed wing aircraft. Because TCE is pervasive in the environment, most p"
385,"eople are likely to be exposed to TCE by simply eating, drinking, and breathing, according to the Department of Health and Human Services’ Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR). Industrial wastewater is the primary source of release of TCE into water systems, but inhalation is the main route of potential environmental exposure to TCE. ATSDR has also reported that TCE has been found in a variety of foods, with the highest levels in meats, at 12 to 16 ppb, and U.S. margarine, at 440 to 3,60"
386,"0 ppb. In fact, HHS’s National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) suggested that approximately 10 percent of the population had detectable levels of TCE in their blood. Inhaling small amounts of TCE may cause headaches, lung irritation, poor coordination, and difficulty concentrating, according ATSDR’s Toxicological Profile. Inhaling or drinking liquids containing high levels of TCE may cause nervous system effects, liver and lung damage, abnormal heartbeat, coma, or possibly death. ATSDR also"
387," notes that some animal studies suggest that high levels of TCE may cause liver, kidney, or lung cancer, and some studies of people exposed over long periods to high levels of TCE in drinking water or workplace air have shown an increased risk of cancer. ATSDR’s Toxicological Profile notes that the National Toxicology Program has determined that TCE is “reasonably anticipated to be a human carcinogen” and the International Agency for Research on Cancer has determined that TCE is probably carcinogenic to hum"
388,"ans— specifically, kidney, liver and cervical cancers, Hodgkin’s disease, and non- Hodgkin’s lymphoma—based on limited evidence of carcinogenicity in humans and additional evidence from studies in experimental animals. Effective in 1989, EPA adopted an MCL of 5 ppb of TCE in drinking water supplies pursuant to the Safe Drinking Water Act. Despite EPA’s regulation of TCE as a drinking water contaminant, concerns over serious long-term effects associated with TCE exposures have prompted additional scrutiny by"
389," both governmental and nongovernmental scientific organizations. For example, ATSDR initiated a public health assessment in 1991 to evaluate the possible health risks from exposure to contaminated drinking water on Camp Lejeune. The health concerns over TCE have been further amplified in recent years after scientific studies have suggested additional risks posed by human exposure to TCE. ATSDR is continuing to develop information about the possible long-term health consequences of these potential exposures "
390,"in a subregistry to the National Exposure Registry specifically for hazardous waste sites. As we previously reported with respect to Camp Lejeune, those who lived on base likely had a higher risk of inhalation exposure to volatile organic compounds such as TCE, which may be more potent than ingestion exposure. Thus, pregnant women who lived in areas of base housing with contaminated water and conducted activities during which they could inhale water vapor—such as bathing, showering, or washing dishes or clo"
391,"thing—likely faced greater exposure than those who did not live on base but worked on base in areas served by the contaminated drinking water. Concerns about possible adverse health effects and government actions related to the past drinking water contamination on Camp Lejeune have led to additional activities, including new health studies, claims against the federal government, and federal inquiries. As a consequence of these growing concerns—and of anxiety among affected communities about these health eff"
392,"ects and related litigation—ATSDR has undertaken a study to examine whether individuals who were exposed in utero to the contaminated drinking water are more likely to have developed certain childhood cancers or birth defects. This research, once completed later in 2007, is expected to help regulators understand the effects of low levels of TCE in our environment. In addition, some former residents of Camp Lejeune have filed tort claims and lawsuits against the federal government related to the past drinkin"
393,"g water contamination. As of June 2007, about 850 former residents and former employees had filed tort claims with the Department of the Navy related to the past drinking water contamination. According to an official with the U.S. Navy Judge Advocate General—which is handling the claims on behalf of the Department of the Navy—the agency is currently maintaining a database of all claims filed. The official said that the Judge Advocate General is awaiting completion of the latest ATSDR health study before dec"
394,"iding whether to settle or deny the pending claims in order to base its response on as much objective scientific and medical information as possible. According to DOD, any future reassessment of TCE toxicity may result in additional reviews of DOD sites that utilized the former TCE toxicity values, as the action levels for TCE cleanup in the environment may change. As we discussed in our May 2005 report and April 2007 testimony, EPA has not established a standard for limiting perchlorate concentrations in d"
395,"rinking water under the SDWA. Perchlorate has emerged as a matter of concern because recent studies have shown that it can affect the thyroid gland, which helps to regulate the body’s metabolism and may cause developmental impairments in the fetuses of pregnant women. Perchlorate is a primary ingredient in propellant and has been used for decades by the Department of Defense, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and the defense industry in manufacturing, testing, and firing missiles and rocket"
396,"s. Other uses include fireworks, fertilizers, and explosives. It is readily dissolved and transported in water and has been found in groundwater, surface water, drinking water, and soil across the country. The sources of perchlorate vary, but the defense and aerospace industries are the greatest known source of contamination. Scientific information on perchlorate was limited until 1997, when a better detection method became available for perchlorate, and detections (and concern about perchlorate contaminati"
397,"on) increased. In 1998, EPA first placed perchlorate on its Contaminant Candidate List, the list of contaminants that are candidates for regulation, but the agency concluded that information was insufficient to determine whether perchlorate should be regulated under the SDWA. EPA listed perchlorate as a priority for further research on health effects and treatment technologies and for collecting occurrence data. In 1999, EPA required water systems to monitor for perchlorate under the Unregulated Contaminant"
398," Monitoring Rule to determine the frequency and levels at which it is present in public water supplies nationwide. Interagency disagreements over the risks of perchlorate exposure led several federal agencies to ask the National Research Council (NRC) of the National Academy of Sciences to evaluate perchlorate’s health effects. In 2005, NRC issued a comprehensive review of the health effects of perchlorate ingestion, and it reported that certain levels of exposure may not adversely affect healthy adults. Ho"
399,"wever, the NRC-recommended more studies on the effects of perchlorate exposure in children and pregnant women and recommended a reference dose of 0.0007 milligrams per kilogram per day. In 2005, the EPA adopted the NRC recommended reference dose, which translates to a drinking water equivalent level (DWEL) of 24.5 ppb. If the EPA were to develop a drinking water standard for perchlorate, it would adjust the DWEL to account for other sources of exposure, such as food. Although EPA has taken some steps to con"
400,"sider a standard, in April 2007 EPA again decided not to regulate perchlorate—citing the need for additional research—and kept perchlorate on its Contaminant Candidate List. Several human studies have shown that thyroid changes occur in human adults at significantly higher concentrations than the amounts typically observed in water supplies. However, more recent studies have since provided new knowledge and raised concerns about potential health risks of low-level exposures, particularly for infants and fet"
401,"uses. Specifically, in October 2006, researchers from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) published the results of the first large study to examine the relationship between low-level perchlorate exposure and thyroid function in women with lower iodine levels. About 36 percent of U.S. women have these lower iodine levels. The study found decreases in a thyroid hormone that helps regulate the body’s metabolism and is needed for proper fetal neural development. Moreover, in May 2007, FDA relea"
402,"sed a preliminary exposure assessment because of significant public interest in the issue of perchlorate exposure from food. FDA sampled and tested foods such as tomatoes, carrots, spinach, and cantaloupe; and other high water content foods such as apple and orange juices; vegetables such as cucumbers, green beans, and greens; and seafood such as fish and shrimp for perchlorate and found widespread low-level perchlorate levels in these items. FDA is also planning to publish, in late 2007, an assessment of e"
403,"xposure to perchlorate from foods, based on results from its fiscal year 2005-2006 Total Diet Study—a market basket study that is representative of the U.S. diet. Some federal funding has been directed to perchlorate studies and cleanup activities. For example, committee reports related to the DOD and EPA appropriations acts of fiscal year 2006 directed some funding for perchlorate cleanup. In the Senate committee report for the Department of Health and Human Services fiscal year 2006 appropriations act, th"
404,"e committee encouraged support for studies on the long-term effects of perchlorate exposure. The Senate committee report for FDA’s fiscal year 2006 appropriations act directed FDA to continue conducting surveys of perchlorate in food and bottled water and to report the findings to Congress. In the current Congress, legislation has been introduced that would require EPA to establish a health advisory for perchlorate, as well as requiring public water systems serving more than 10,000 people to test for perchl"
405,"orate and disclose its presence in annual consumer confidence reports. Other pending legislation would require EPA to establish a national primary drinking water standard for perchlorate. DOD has certain responsibilities with regard to emerging contaminants such as TCE that are regulated by EPA or state governments, but its responsibilities and cleanup goals are less definite for emerging contaminants such as perchlorate that lack federal regulatory standards. As we have previously reported, DOD must comply"
406," with any cleanup standards and processes under all applicable environmental laws, regulations, and executive orders, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) and the Clean Water Act’s National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES), and the SDWA. DOD’s designation of perchlorate as an emerging contaminant reflects the department’s recognition that the chemical has a significant potential i"
407,"mpact on people or the Department’s mission. DOD’s recognition of a substance as an emerging contaminant can lead DOD to decide to take to certain cleanup efforts even in the absence of a federal regulatory standard. In addition, federal laws enacted in fiscal years 2004 and 2005 required DOD to conduct health studies and evaluate perchlorate found at military sites. For example, the Ronald W. Reagan National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2005 stated that the Secretary of Defense should develop "
408,"a plan for cleaning up perchlorate resulting from DOD activities when the perchlorate poses a health hazard and continue evaluating identified sites. As we reported in our 2005 perchlorate report, DOD has sometimes responded at the request of EPA and state environmental authorities— which have used a patchwork of statutes, regulations, and general oversight authorities—to act (or require others, including DOD, to act) when perchlorate was deemed to pose a threat to human health and the environment. For exam"
409,"ple, pursuant to its authority under the Clean Water Act’s NPDES program, Texas required the Navy to reduce perchlorate levels in wastewater discharges at the McGregor Naval Weapons Industrial Reserve Plant to 4 parts per billion, the lowest level at which perchlorate could be detected. Similarly, after sampling required as part of a RCRA permit detected perchlorate, Utah officials required ATK Thiokol, an explosives and rocket fuel manufacturer, to install a monitoring well to determine the extent of perch"
410,"lorate contamination at their facility and take steps to prevent additional releases of perchlorate. In addition, EPA and state officials also told us during our 2005 review that they have sometimes used their general oversight responsibilities to protect water quality and human health to investigate and sample groundwater and surface water areas for perchlorate. For example, EPA asked Patrick Air Force Base and the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, Florida, to sample groundwater for perchlorate near rocket"
411," launch sites. Previously, both installations had inventoried areas where perchlorate was suspected and conducted limited sampling. DOD officials did not find perchlorate at Patrick Air Force Base and, according to an EPA official, the Department of the Air Force said it would not conduct additional sampling at either installation until there was a federal standard for perchlorate. Finally, according to EPA, in the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, at least eight states have established nonregulato"
412,"ry action levels or advisories for perchlorate ranging from 1 part per billion to 51 parts per billion. (See table 1.) Massachusetts is the only state to have established a drinking water standard—set at 2 ppb. The California Department of Health Services reports that California will complete the rulemaking for its proposed standard of 6 ppb later this year. States have used these thresholds to identify the level at which some specified action must be taken by DOD and other facilities in their state, in the"
413," absence of a federal standard. For example, Oregon initiated in-depth site studies to determine the cause and extent of perchlorate contamination when concentrations of 18 ppb or greater are found. Nevada required the Kerr-McGee Chemical site in Henderson to treat groundwater and reduce perchlorate concentration releases to 18 ppb, which is Nevada’s action level for perchlorate. Utah officials told us that while the state did not have a written action level for perchlorate, it may require the responsible p"
414,"arty to undertake cleanup activities if perchlorate concentrations exceed 18 ppb. DOD is undertaking a number of activities to address emerging contaminants in general, including the creation of the Materials of Evolving Regulatory Interest Team (MERIT) to systematically address the health, environmental, and safety concerns associated with emerging contaminants. As noted above, DOD is required to follow EPA regulations for monitoring and cleanup of TCE. In addition, DOD is working with ATSDR, which has pro"
415,"jected a December 2007 completion date for its current study of TCE’s health effects on pregnant women and their children. In the absence of a federal standard, DOD has adopted its own perchlorate policies for sampling and cleanup activities or is working under applicable state guidelines. DOD created MERIT to help address the health, environmental, and safety concerns associated with emerging contaminants. According to DOD, MERIT has focused on materials that have been or are used by DOD, or are under deve"
416,"lopment for use, such as perchlorate, TCE, RDX, DNT and new explosives, naphthalene, perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA), hexavalent chromium (i.e., chromium VI), beryllium, and nanomaterials. MERIT’s initiatives include pollution prevention, detection/analytical methods, human health studies, treatment technologies, lifecycle cost analysis, risk assessment and risk management, and public outreach. Another of MERIT’s activities was to create an Emerging Contaminant Action List of materials that DOD has assessed a"
417,"nd judged to have a significant potential impact on people or DOD’s mission. The current list includes five contaminants—perchlorate, TCE, RDX, naphthalene, and hexavalent chromium. To be placed on the action list, the contaminant will generally have been assessed by MERIT for its impacts on (1) environment, safety, and health (including occupational and public health), (2) cleanup efforts, (3) readiness and training, (4) acquisition, and (5) operation and maintenance activities. In 1979, EPA issued nonenfo"
418,"rceable guidance establishing “suggested no adverse response levels” for TCE in drinking water. These levels provided EPA’s estimate of the short- and long-term exposure to TCE in drinking water for which no adverse response would be observed and described the known information about possible health risks for these chemicals. However, the guidance for TCE did not suggest actions that public water systems should take if TCE concentrations exceeded those values. Subsequently, in 1989, EPA set an enforceable M"
419,"CL for TCE of 5 micrograms per liter, equivalent to 5 ppb in drinking water. The new standard served as a regulatory basis for many facilities to take concrete action to measure and control TCE. According to EPA’s Region 4 Superfund Director, for example, 46 sites on Camp Lejeune have since been identified for TCE cleanup. The Navy and EPA have selected remedies for 30 of those sites, and the remaining 16 are under active investigation. The first Record of Decision was signed in September 1992 and addressed"
420," contamination of groundwater in the Hadnot Point Area, one of Camp Lejeune’s water systems. Remedies to address groundwater contamination include groundwater “pump and treat” systems, in-situ chemical oxidation, and monitored natural attenuation. DOD contends that it is aggressively treating TCE as part of its current cleanup program. It notes that the department uses much less TCE than in the past and requires strict handling procedures and pollution prevention measures to prevent exposure to TCE and the "
421,"release of TCE into the environment. Specifically, DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents such as citrus-based agents, mineral oils and other non-toxic solutions. In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. The 2003 Interim Policy on Perchlorate Sampling required the military services—Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines—to sample on active installations (1) where a reasonable basis existed to sus"
422,"pect that a perchlorate release occurred as a result of DOD activities, and (2) a complete human exposure pathway likely existed or (3) where a particular installation must do so under state laws or applicable federal regulations such as the NPDES permit program. However, DOD’s interim policy on perchlorate did not address cleanup responsibilities nor did it address contamination at closed installations. As we detailed in our previous work, DOD only sampled for perchlorate on closed installations when reque"
423,"sted by EPA or a state agency, and only cleaned up active and closed installations when required by a specific environmental law, regulation, or program such as the environmental restoration program at formerly used defense sites. For example, at EPA’s request, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) installed monitoring wells and sampled for perchlorate at Camp Bonneville, a closed installation near Vancouver, Washington. Utah state officials also reported to us that DOD removed soil containing perchlorat"
424,"e at the former Wendover Air Force Base in Utah, where the Corps found perchlorate in 2004. However, as we previously reported, DOD cited reluctance to sample on or near active installations because of the lack of a federal regulatory standard for perchlorate. In the absence of a federal standard, DOD has also worked with individual states on perchlorate sampling and cleanup. For example, in October 2004, DOD and California agreed to prioritize perchlorate sampling at DOD facilities in California, including"
425," identifying and prioritizing the investigation of areas on active installations and military sites (1) where the presence of perchlorate is likely based on previous and current defense-related activities and (2) near drinking water sources where perchlorate was found. In January 2006, DOD updated its policy with the issuance of its Policy on DOD Required Actions Related to Perchlorate. The new policy applies broadly to DOD’s active and closed installations and formerly used defense sites within the United "
426,"States, its territories and possessions. It directs DOD to test for perchlorate and take certain cleanup actions. The policy also acknowledges the importance of EPA direction in driving DOD’s response to emerging contaminants. It stated, for example, that its adoption of 24 ppb as the current level of concern for managing perchlorate was in response to EPA’s adoption of an oral reference dose that translates to a Drinking Water Equivalent Level of 24.5 ppb. The policy also states that when EPA or the states"
427," adopt standards for perchlorate, “DOD will comply with applicable state or federal promulgated standards whichever is more stringent.” The 2006 policy directs DOD to test for perchlorate when it is reasonably expected that a release has occurred. If perchlorate levels exceed 24 ppb, a site-specific risk assessment must be conducted. When an assessment indicates that the perchlorate contamination could result in adverse health effects, the site must be prioritized for risk management. DOD uses a relative-ri"
428,"sk site evaluation framework across DOD to evaluate the risks posed by one site relative to other sites and to help prioritize environmental restoration work and to allocate resources among sites. The policy also directs DOD’s service components to program resources to address perchlorate contamination under four DOD programs— environmental restoration, operational ranges, DOD-owned drinking water systems, and DOD wastewater effluent discharges. Under the 2006 perchlorate policy, DOD has sampled drinking wa"
429,"ter, groundwater, and soil where the release of perchlorate may result in human exposure and responded where it has deemed appropriate to protect public health. As we have reported, DOD is responsible for a large number of identified sites with perchlorate contamination, and the department has allotted significant resources to address the problem. According to DOD, sampling for perchlorate has occurred at 258 active DOD installations or facilities. Through fiscal year 2006, DOD reported spending approximate"
430,"ly $88 million on perchlorate-related research activities, including $60 million for perchlorate treatment technologies, $9.5 million on health and toxicity studies, and $11.6 million on pollution prevention. Additional funds have been spent on testing technology and cleanup. DOD also claims credit for other efforts, including strict handling procedures to prevent the release of perchlorate into the environment and providing information about perchlorate at DOD facilities and DOD’s responses. For example, D"
431,"OD posts the results of its perchlorate sampling, by state, on MERIT’s Web site. As we have previously reported, DOD must comply with cleanup standards and processes under applicable laws, regulations and executive orders, including EPA drinking water standards and state-level standards. In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has also initiated perchlorate response actions to clean up perchlorate contamination at several active and formerly used defense sites under its current perchlorate pol"
432,"icy. For example, at Edwards Air Force Base in California, DOD has treated 32 million gallons of ground water under a pilot project for contaminants that include perchlorate. In addition, DOD has removed soil and treated groundwater at the Massachusetts Military Reservation and Camp Bonneville in Washington State. In conclusion, Mr. Chairman, DOD faces significant challenges, and potentially large costs, in addressing emerging contaminants, particularly in light of the scientific developments and regulatory"
433," uncertainties surrounding these chemicals and materials. To help address them, DOD recently identified five emerging contaminants for which it is developing risk management options. As in the case of TCE, DOD took action to address contamination after EPA established an MCL in 1989. DOD has stated that further efforts to address perchlorate would require a regulatory standard from EPA and/or the states. The fact that some states have moved to create such standards complicates the issue for DOD by presentin"
434,"g it with varying cleanup standards across the country. As the debate over a federal perchlorate standard continues, the recently- issued health studies from CDC and FDA may provide additional weight to the view that the time for such a standard may be approaching. Until one is adopted, DOD will continue to face the challenges of differing regulatory requirements in different states and continuing questions about whether its efforts to control perchlorate contamination are necessary or sufficient to protect"
435," human health. Mr. Chairman, this concludes my prepared statement. I would be happy to respond to any questions that you or Members of the Subcommittee may have at this time. For further information about this testimony, please contact John Stephenson at (202) 512-3841 or stephensonj@gao.gov. Contact points for our Offices of Congressional Relations and Public Affairs may be found on the last page of this statement. Contributors to this testimony include Steven Elstein, Assistant Director and Terrance Horne"
436,"r, Senior Analyst. Marc Castellano, Richard Johnson, and Alison O’Neill also made key contributions. Defense Health Care: Issues Related To Past Drinking Water Contamination at Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune, GAO-07-933T (June 12, 2007). Defense Health Care: Activities Related To Past Drinking Water Contamination at Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune, GAO-07-276 (May 11, 2007). Perchlorate: EPA Does Not Systematically Track Incidents of Contamination, GAO-07-797T (April 25, 2007). Environmental Information: EPA"
437," Actions Could Reduce the Availability Of Environmental Information To The Public, GAO-07-464T (February 6, 2007). Military Base Closures: Opportunities Exist to Improve Environmental Cleanup Cost Reporting and to Expedite Transfer of Unneeded Property, GAO-07-166 (January 30, 2007). Perchlorate: A System to Track Sampling and Cleanup Results Is Needed, GAO-05-462 (May 20, 2005). Military Base Closures: Updated Status of Prior Base Realignments and Closures, GAO-05-138 (January 13, 2005). Environmental Cont"
438,"amination: DOD Has Taken Steps To Improve Cleanup Coordination At Former Defense Sites But Clearer Guidance Is Needed To Ensure Consistency, GAO-03-146 (March 28, 2003). This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be necessary if you wish to rep"
439,roduce this material separately.
440,"As you know, the cost of the Decennial Census has steadily increased during the past 40 years, in part because the nation’s population has steadily grown larger, more diverse, and increasingly difficult to enumerate. For example, at about $13 billion, the 2010 Census was the costliest U.S. census in history and was 56 percent more costly than the $8.1 billion 2000 Census (in constant 2010 dollars). To help save costs, in preparing for the 2020 Census, the Bureau has been researching and testing new methods "
441,and technologies to redesign the Census to more cost-effectively count the population while maintaining high-quality results. The Bureau’s research and testing has focused on four redesign areas: Reengineering address canvassing: This involves reengineering processes for updating the Bureau’s address list and maps of the nation to reduce the need for employing field staff to walk every street in the nation to verify addresses. Optimizing self-response: Includes efforts to maximize the self- response of hous
442,"eholds by, among other things, offering an Internet response option. As we have previously reported, to deliver the Internet response option, the Bureau would need to, among other things, design and develop an Internet response application, develop and acquire the IT infrastructure to support a large volume of data processing and storage, and plan communication and outreach strategies to motivate households to respond via the Internet. Using administrative records: This includes expanding the use of data pr"
443,"eviously obtained by other federal and state government agencies and commercial sources to reduce the need for costly and labor-intensive follow-up work. My colleague will address the Bureau’s progress on using administrative records in his statement today. Reengineering field operations: This includes reducing the number of visits to households, automating the management of enumerator work to conduct non-response follow-up, and automating and optimizing case assignment and routing for enumerators to reduce"
444," the staffing, infrastructure, and field offices required for the 2020 Census. The Bureau has conducted several major field tests to examine the potential for each of these redesign areas: In mid-2014 the Bureau conducted the 2014 Census Test in the Maryland and Washington, D.C., areas to test new methods for conducting self-response and non-response follow-up. In early 2015 the Bureau completed the Address Validation Test, which was used to examine new methods for updating the Bureau’s address list. In mid"
445,"-2015 the Bureau conducted the 2015 Census Test in Arizona to test, among other things, the use of a field operations management system to automate data collection operations and provide real-time data and the ability to reduce the non-response follow-up workload using data previously provided to the government, as well as enabling enumerators to use their personally owned mobile devices to collect census data. Also in mid-2015, the Bureau conducted an optimizing self-response test in Savannah, Georgia, and"
446," the surrounding area, which was intended to further explore methods of encouraging households to respond using the Internet, such as using advertising and outreach to motivate respondents, and enabling households to respond without a Bureau-issued identification number. More recently, the Bureau began its National Content Test, which is currently ongoing and intended to, among other things, continue to test self-response modes and contact strategies and refine estimates of national self-response and Intern"
447,"et response rates. These tests were intended to inform the first version of the Bureau’s 2020 Census Operational Plan, which is intended to outline design decisions that drive how the 2020 Census will be conducted. As part of these decisions, the Bureau has committed to aspects of the 2020 Census redesign. The operational plan articulated 326 total design decision points, which vary widely in their complexity, importance, and urgency. As of October 6, 2015, the Bureau had made decisions for about 47 percent"
448," of them related to each of the four redesign areas. For example, the Bureau has decided to conduct 100 percent of address canvassing (i.e., identifying all addresses where people could live) in the office, and target a subset of up to 25 percent for in-the-field address canvassing; offer an Internet self-response option, as well as alternative response options via telephone and paper for limited circumstances; allow people to respond without a unique census identification use mobile devices for enumerators"
449," to conduct field data collection; use administrative records to enumerate vacant units; use enterprise solutions to support the 2020 Census, when practicable; and reduce the field footprint by half in comparison to the 2010 Census (e.g., 6 regional census centers instead of 12 and up to 250 field offices instead of nearly 500). Figure 1 provides an overview of the Bureau’s current plans and assumptions for the 2020 Census, resulting from the October 2015 operational plan. As a result of these decisions, th"
450,"e Bureau estimates saving $5.2 billion. Specifically, the Bureau estimated that repeating the design of the 2010 Census for 2020 would cost approximately $17.8 billion (in constant 2020 dollars), while successfully implementing the four redesign areas is expected to result in an overall 2020 Census cost of $12.5 billion (in constant 2020 dollars). Table 1 illustrates the estimated cost savings associated with each redesign area. Moving forward, the Bureau plans to conduct additional research and testing and"
451," further refine the design through 2018. By August 2017, the Bureau plans to begin preparations for end-to-end testing, which is intended to test all systems and operations to ensure readiness for the 2020 Census. Figure 2 shows the timeline for planned 2020 Census research and testing. Concurrent with redesigning the decennial census, the Bureau has also begun a significant effort to modernize and consolidate its survey data collection and processing functions. This is being undertaken through an enterpris"
452,"e-wide IT initiative called Census Enterprise Data Collection and Processing (CEDCAP). This initiative is a large and complex modernization program intended to deliver a system-of-systems for all the Bureau’s survey data collection and processing functions—rather than continuing to rely on unique, survey-specific systems with redundant capabilities. For the 2020 Census, CEDCAP is expected to deliver the systems and IT infrastructure needed to implement the Bureau’s redesign areas. For example: To reengineer"
453," field work, CEDCAP is expected to implement a new dynamic operational control system to track and manage field work. This system is to be able to make decisions about which visits enumerators should attempt on a daily basis using real-time data, as well as provide automated route planning to make enumerator travel more efficient. CEDCAP also includes testing the use of mobile devices, either government-furnished or employee-owned, to automate data collection in the field. To maximize self-response with the"
454," Internet response option, CEDCAP is responsible for developing and testing a web-based survey application and exploring options for establishing the IT infrastructure to support the increased volume of data processing and storage that will be needed. CEDCAP consists of 12 projects that are to deliver capabilities incrementally, over the course of at least 10 releases. The Bureau plans to roll out capabilities for the 2020 Census incrementally through 6 of these releases, while also deploying capabilities f"
455,"or other surveys such as the American Community Survey and Economic Census. The Bureau expects to reuse selected systems, make modifications to other systems, and develop or acquire additional systems and infrastructure. As of August 2015, the CEDCAP program was projected to cost about $548 million through 2020. However, the Bureau’s past efforts to implement new approaches and systems have not always gone well. As one example, during the 2010 Census, the Bureau planned to use handheld mobile devices to sup"
456,"port field data collection for the census, including following up with nonrespondents. However, due to significant problems identified during testing of the devices, cost overruns, and schedule slippages, the Bureau decided not to use the handheld devices for non-response follow-up and reverted to paper-based processing, which increased the cost of the 2010 Census by up to $3 billion and significantly increased its risk as it had to switch its operations to paper-based operations as a backup. Last month’s i"
457,"ssuance of the 2020 Census Operational Plan, which documents many key decisions about the redesign of the 2020 Census, represents progress; however, the Bureau faces critical challenges in delivering the IT systems needed to support the redesign areas. Specifically, with preparations for end-to-end testing less than 2 years away, the window to implement CEDCAP, which is intended to be the backbone of the 2020 Census, is narrow. Additionally, while the Bureau has demonstrated improvements in IT management, a"
458,"s we have previously reported, it faces critical gaps in its IT workforce planning and information security. Until it takes actions we have previously recommended to address these challenges, the Bureau is at risk of cost overruns, schedule delays, and performance shortfalls, which will likely diminish the potentially significant cost savings that it estimates will result from redesigning the census for 2020. The Bureau has not prioritized key IT-related decisions, which is a trend we have reported for the "
459,"past few years. Specifically, in April 2014, we reported the Bureau had not prioritized key IT research and testing needed for the design decisions planned for the end of 2015. In particular, the Bureau had not completed the necessary plans and schedules for research and testing efforts and had not prioritized what needed to be done in time for the 2015 design decisions—a milestone that had already been pushed back by a year (see fig. 3). We concluded that, given the current trajectory and the lack of suppo"
460,"rting schedules and plans, it was unlikely that all planned IT-related research and testing activities would be completed in time to support the 2015 design decisions—which ultimately came to fruition (as discussed later). In light of these ongoing challenges, we recommended in our April 2014 report that the Bureau prioritize its IT-related research and testing projects that need to be completed to support the design decisions and develop schedules and plans to reflect the new prioritized approach. The Bure"
461,"au agreed with our recommendations and has taken steps to address them. For example, in September 2014, the Bureau released a plan that identified inputs, such as research questions, design components, and testing, that were needed to inform the operational design decisions expected in the fall of 2015. However, as we reported in February 2015, the Bureau had not yet determined how key IT research questions that had been identified as critical inputs into the design decisions—estimating the Internet self- r"
462,"esponse rate and determining the IT infrastructure for security and scalability needed to support Internet response—were to be answered. We therefore recommended that the Bureau, among other things, develop methodologies and plans for answering key IT-related research questions in time to inform key design decisions. While the recent 2020 Census Operational Plan documents many key IT- related decisions about the redesign of the census, other critical questions, including the ones identified in our February "
463,"2015 report, remain unanswered. Of greater concern, the Bureau does not intend to answer these and other questions until 2016 through 2018. Specifically, there are several significant IT decisions that are being deferred, which have implications on the CEDCAP program’s ability to have production- ready systems in place in time to conduct end-to-end testing. For example, the Bureau does not plan to decide on the projected demand that the IT infrastructure and systems would need to accommodate or whether the "
464,"Bureau will build or buy the needed systems until June 2016, at the earliest; the high-level design and description of the systems (referred to as the solutions architecture) until September 2016—leaving about a year to, among other things, build or acquire, integrate, and test the systems that are intended to serve as the backbone to the 2020 Census before preparations for end-to-end testing begins in August 2017; and the strategy for the use of mobile devices for field work until October 2017. Figure 4 il"
465,"lustrates several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place. Institutionalizing key IT management controls, such as IT governance, system development methodology, and requirements management processes, helps establish a consistent and repeatable process for managing and overseeing IT investments and reduces the risk of "
466,"experiencing cost overruns, schedule slippages, and performance shortfalls, like those that affected the previous census. However, in September 2012, we reported that the Bureau lacked a sufficiently mature IT governance process to ensure that investments are properly controlled and monitored, did not have a comprehensive system development methodology, and continued to have long-standing challenges in requirements management. We made several recommendations to address these issues, and the Bureau took acti"
467,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance, such as establishing guidelines on the frequency of investment review board meetings and thresholds for escalation of cost, risk, or impact issues; finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology, which included the short incremental development model, referred to as Agile, and a process for continuously improving the methodology ba"
468,"sed on lessons learned; and implemented a consistent requirements development tool that includes guidance for developing requirements at the strategic mission, business, and project levels and is integrated with its enterprise system development life-cycle methodology. As a result, the Bureau has established a consistent process for managing and overseeing its IT investments. Effective workforce planning is essential to ensure organizations have the proper skills, abilities, and capacity for effective manag"
469,"ement. While the Bureau has made progress in IT workforce planning efforts, many critical IT competency gaps remain to be filled. In September 2012 we reported, among other things, that the Bureau had not developed a Bureau-wide IT workforce plan; identified gaps in mission-critical IT occupations, skills, and competencies; or developed strategies to address gaps. Accordingly, we recommended that the Bureau establish a repeatable process for performing IT skills assessments and gap analyses and establish a "
470,"process for directorates to coordinate on IT workforce planning. In response, in 2013 the Bureau completed an enterprise-wide competency assessment and identified several mission-critical gaps in technical competencies. In 2014, the Bureau established documents to institutionalize a strategic workforce planning process, identified actions and targets to close the competency gaps by December 2015, and established a process to monitor quarterly status reports on the implementation of these actions. However, a"
471,"s we reported in February 2015, while these are positive steps in establishing strategic workforce planning capabilities, the Bureau’s workforce competency assessment identified several mission-critical gaps that would challenge its ability to deliver IT-related initiatives, such as the IT systems that are expected to be delivered by CEDCAP. For example, the Bureau found that competency gaps existed in cloud computing, security integration and engineering, enterprise/mission engineering life- cycle, require"
472,"ments development, and Internet data collection. The Bureau also found that enterprise-level competency gaps existed in program and project management, budget and cost estimation, systems development, data analytics, and shared services. The Bureau has taken steps to regularly monitor and report on the status of its efforts to close competency gaps and has completed several notable actions. For example, in August 2015, the Bureau filled the position of Decennial IT Division Chief and in September 2015 award"
473,"ed an enterprise-wide IT services contract for systems engineering and integration support. However, more work remains for the Bureau to close competency gaps critical to the implementation of its IT efforts. Most significantly, in July 2015, the Chief Information Officer resigned. As of October 2015, the Bureau was working to fill that gap and had an acting Chief Information Officer temporarily in the position. Additionally, there are other gaps in key positions, such as the Chief of the Office of Informat"
474,"ion Security and Deputy Chief Information Security Officer, Big Data Center Chief, Chief Cloud Architect, and the CEDCAP Assistant Chief of Business Integration, who is responsible for overseeing the integration of schedule, risks, and budget across the 12 projects. According to Bureau officials, they are working to address these gaps. Critical to the Bureau’s ability to perform its data collection and analysis duties are its information systems and the protection of the information they contain. A data bre"
475,"ach could result in the public’s loss of confidence in the Bureau, thus affecting its ability to collect census data. To ensure the reliability of their computerized information, agencies should design and implement controls to prevent, limit, and detect unauthorized access to computing resources, programs, information, and facilities. Inadequate design or implementation of access controls increases the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information and disruption of"
476," service. In January 2013, we reported on the Bureau’s implementation of information security controls to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the information and systems that support its mission. We concluded that the Bureau had a number of weaknesses in controls intended to limit access to its systems and information, as well as those related to managing system configurations and unplanned events. We attributed these weaknesses to the fact that the Bureau had not fully implemented a"
477," comprehensive information security program, and made 115 recommendations aimed at addressing these deficiencies. The Bureau expressed broad agreement with the report and said it would work to find the best ways to address our recommendations. As of October 29, 2015, the Bureau had addressed 66 of the 115 recommendations we made in January 2013. Of the remaining open recommendations, we have determined that 30 require additional actions by the Bureau, and for the other 19 we have work under way to evaluate "
478,"if they have been fully addressed. The Bureau’s progress toward addressing our security recommendations is encouraging. However, more work remains to address the recommendations. A cyber incident recently occurred at the Bureau, and while it appears to have had limited impact, it demonstrates vulnerabilities at the Bureau. Specifically, in July 2015, the Bureau reported that it had been targeted by a cyber attack aimed at gaining access to its Federal Audit Clearinghouse, which contains non-confidential inf"
479,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Indian tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. According to Bureau officials, the breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network that does not touch administrative records or sensitive respondent data protected under Title 13 of the U.S. Code, and the hackers did not obtain the personally identifiable information of census and survey respondents. Given that the Bureau is planning to bu"
480,"ild or acquire IT systems to collect the public’s personal information for the 2020 Census in ways that it has not for previous censuses (e.g., web-based surveys, cloud computing, and enabling mobile devices to collect census data), continuing to implement our recommendations and apply IT security best practices as it implements CEDCAP systems must be a high priority. As a result of the Bureau’s challenges in key IT internal controls and its looming deadline, we identified CEDCAP as an IT investment in need"
481," of attention in our February 2015 High-Risk report. We recently initiated a review of the CEDCAP program for your subcommittees, and expect to issue a report in the spring of 2016. In conclusion, the Bureau is pursuing initiatives to significantly reform its outdated and inefficient methods of conducting decennial censuses. However, with less than 2 years remaining until the Bureau plans to have all systems and processes for the 2020 Census developed and ready for end-to-end testing, it faces challenges th"
482,"at pose significant risk to 2020 Census program. These include the magnitude of the planned changes to the design of the census, the Bureau’s prior track record in executing large-scale IT projects, and the current lack of a permanent Chief Information Officer, among others. Moreover, the Bureau’s preliminary decision deadline has come and gone, and many IT-related decisions have been deferred to 2016 through 2018. Consequently, it is running out of time to develop, acquire, and implement the production sys"
483,"tems it will need to deliver the redesign and achieve its projected $5.2 billion in cost savings. The Bureau needs to take action to address the specific challenges we have highlighted in prior reports. If these actions are not taken, cost overruns, schedules delays, and performance shortfalls may diminish the potentially significant cost savings that the Bureau estimates will result from redesigning the census for 2020. Chairmen Meadows and Hurd, Ranking Members Connolly and Kelly, and Members of the Subco"
484,"mmittees, this completes my prepared statement. I would be pleased to respond to any questions that you may have. If you have any questions concerning this statement, please contact Carol Cha, Director, Information Technology Acquisition Management Issues, at (202) 512-4456 or chac@gao.gov. Other individuals who made key contributions include Shannin O’Neill, Assistant Director; Andrew Beggs; Lee McCracken; and Jeanne Sung. This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in "
485,"the United States. The published product may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately."
486,"Each military service—the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps—is responsible for assessing and making decisions regarding the ammunition in its inventory. The Army, as the Single Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items, for which capability, technology, and facilities exist to complete demilitarization and disposal. The services determine if the conventional ammunit"
487,"ion in their accounts is unserviceable or above their needs, and if so, transfer the ammunition to installations as specified by the SMCA. However, before proceeding with demilitarization, any serviceable conventional ammunition that is beyond a service’s needs is to be offered to the other services through an annual cross-leveling process. The services are to screen all conventional ammunition inventories that are beyond their needs by the other military services. Once the screening is complete, the servic"
488,"e can transfer ammunition to the demilitarization account as DOD excess, except when safety issues require immediate disposal. As shown in figure 1, once it has been determined that the conventional ammunition is unserviceable or DOD excess, the services deliver the ammunition to one of the seven demilitarization depots in the United States and the ammunition is incorporated into the CAD stockpile. Appendix III provides a map of the seven demilitarization depots and an explanation of the demilitarization me"
489,"thods used by the Army. Multiple DOD entities have responsibilities related to managing and overseeing conventional ammunition, with the Army having a prominent role. The Secretary of the Army serves as DOD’s SMCA and is responsible for centrally managing all aspects of the life cycle management of conventional ammunition, from research and development through demilitarization and disposal. The Program Executive Office for Ammunition has been designated the SMCA Executor and is responsible for executing all"
490," the functions of the SMCA. The Program Executive Office for Ammunition works with Joint Munitions Command and the Aviation and Missile Command to manage the demilitarization of conventional ammunition at seven Army depots and several commercial firms. The Program Executive Office for Ammunition budgets and funds the demilitarization and disposal of all munitions in the CAD stockpile. In addition, for ammunition, such as Bullpup rockets, that has no demilitarization process, the Program Executive Office for"
491," Ammunition plans, programs, budgets, and funds a joint-service research and development program to develop the necessary capability, technology, and facilities to demilitarize the ammunition. Within the Army Materiel Command, Army Aviation and Missile Command is responsible for the demilitarization of missiles and components, and the Joint Munitions Command is responsible for demilitarization of all remaining conventional ammunition. Army Aviation and Missile Command develops and implements the annual miss"
492,"ile demilitarization operating plan, and Joint Munitions Command does the same for the CAD stockpile. Furthermore, Joint Munitions Command provides logistics and sustainment support to the Program Executive Office for Ammunition and the Army Aviation and Missile Command. Joint Munitions Command also oversees the storage of the CAD stockpile, maintains the CAD stockpile database, and arranges the transportation of conventional ammunition to the demilitarization site when necessary. The military departments h"
493,"ave a process for collecting and sharing data on conventional ammunition through inventory stratification reports that they are required to prepare at least annually. They use these reports to identify inventory owned by one department that may be available to meet the needs of another department, as well as to identify both inventory deficiencies and excesses. DOD Manual 4140.01 Volumes 6 and 10 direct the military departments to assess the ability of the ammunition inventory to meet their needs by stratif"
494,"ying their inventories into various categories and requires them to prepare a report at least annually for internal purposes that lists the current inventory levels of all ammunition. The annual internal report divides the inventory into the categories of requirement-related munitions stock, economic retention munitions stock, contingency retention munitions stock, and potential reutilization and disposal stock. The manual also directs the departments to develop an external report identifying inventory in t"
495,"he same categories for each ammunition listed. The military departments are to use these reports, among other things, to identify opportunities for redistributing ammunition to meet unfilled needs in other military departments. The reports are then distributed to the other military departments to provide visibility. In addition, the Office of the Executive Director for Conventional Ammunition, which facilitates this process, compares the data in the inventory reports with data on planned procurements of amm"
496,"unition. After the departments share their annual reports on ammunition inventory, including which ammunition could be reutilized; department officials participate in the Quad Services Review and review all the other departments’ stratification reports to identify potential cross-leveling opportunities and request logistics data for items of interest. DOD guidance indicates that this cross-leveling process should be used to offset individual procurements of the military departments in coordination with the "
497,"Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics. For example, the Executive Director for Conventional Ammunition reported in September 2014 that DOD avoids an average of $72 million annually in procurement costs by using the redistribution process regarding each service’s inventory holdings that exceed their needs. During the fiscal year 2014 redistribution process, the services transferred approximately 5 million items among each other, of which approximately 3 million were small-cali"
498,"ber items such as ammunition for rifles or pistols, about 2 million were for larger-caliber weapons such as mortars, and about 383,000 were a mixture of other types of ammunition. According to the Office of the Executive Director for Convention Ammunition’s Fiscal Year 2014 Cross-leveling End of Year Report, the potential acquisition cost avoidance achieved in the 2014 cross-leveling process totaled about $104.2 million. DOD guidance requires that at the end of the annual cross-leveling process, any remaini"
499,"ng unclaimed potential reutilization and disposal stock should either be claimed by another military department, recategorized, or designated for disposal, whether through the Defense Logistics Agency Disposition Services Account, or the CAD stockpile, as appropriate. We last reported on DOD’s management of conventional ammunition in March 2014. We found that the Army’s annual stratification report, which shows the status of ammunition inventory at a given point in time, did not include information on all u"
500,"sable ammunition items because it did not include missiles managed by the Army Aviation and Missile Command. Since the Army’s missiles were not included in the annual stratification report, they were not considered during the cross-leveling process. Further, we found that items above the services’ needs in a prior year that had been placed into the CAD stockpile were not considered in the cross- leveling process. We made recommendations to improve data sharing among the services, and DOD concurred with all "
501,"of these recommendations. Among our recommendations was to include missiles managed by the Army Aviation and Missile Command in the annual stratification report, and DOD stated that starting with the March 2014 annual stratification meeting the Army would provide missile information for the cross-leveling process. As a result, 100 Javelin missiles were identified for transfer from the Army to the Marine Corps in fiscal year 2015, potentially saving the Marine Corps an estimated $3 million. Further, we recom"
502,"mended the Army include information on ammunition that in a previous year was unclaimed by another service and had been categorized for disposal. In response, DOD officials stated that all of the military services have visibility into the Army system that tracks ammunition categorized for disposal and they would direct the military services to consider such ammunition in the cross-leveling process. In 2015, the Navy and the Air Force identified materiel worth about $488,000 in the CAD stockpile from prior y"
503,"ears they could use. The services maintain information on their conventional ammunition; however, some inventory records for ammunition in the CAD stockpile have incorrect or incomplete information on its condition and weight. As discussed earlier, each service has its own inventory information system to maintain its conventional ammunition inventory, which includes any unserviceable ammunition or ammunition above its needs in its custody. Consolidated information from the military services on the ammunitio"
504,"n in the CAD stockpile is maintained in the Army’s Logistics Modernization Program (LMP). DOD Instruction 5160.68 directs the services to provide the SMCA with data on ammunition transferred for demilitarization and disposal operations. LMP has information on the location and quantity of all items in the CAD stockpile, but some records have incomplete or incorrect data on condition and weight. Further, according to DOD officials, each item has a condition code assigned to it by the service when placed into "
505,"the CAD stockpile, and the condition code is not updated while the item is in the Service officials stated that when they are considering pulling stockpile.an item from the stockpile to fill a current need, they generally inspect the condition of the item to determine whether the condition code of the item is still accurate and the item is useable. At times, the services have found particular items with a condition code indicating the materiel was serviceable, but the item’s shelf life had expired, while ot"
506,"her ammunition had performance issues that made it unacceptable. Further, we found that DOD does not have the weight data for a number of items in the CAD stockpile. Federal Government state that an entity should have controls to ensure that all transactions are complete and accurately recorded. In our review of data in the LMP database from 2012 to February 2015 the number of records without assigned weight increased from 2,223 (out of 34,511 records) to 2,829 (out of 36,355 records), which shows the probl"
507,"em is growing. Although some of the records that are missing weight data have very few items in storage, there are several items with significant quantities, such as 3.8 million of chaff countermeasures, 125,000 of 75 millimeter projectiles, and 109,000 of 155 millimeter ammunition. LMP lists the gross weight of an individual item (shell, missile, or cartridge), however, officials involved in the demilitarization of conventional ammunition use pro-weight, which includes the weight of the item plus its packa"
508,"ging. Pro-weight is used because the demilitarization process has to recycle, or otherwise dispose of all packaging material and containers in addition to destroying the ammunition. The CAD stockpile weights are described in short tons, which is equal to 2,000 lbs. DOD uses weight data as a metric in managing the demilitarization of conventional ammunition. More specifically, SMCA officials use weight for (1) developing cost estimates for demilitarization projects; (2) determining what conventional ammuniti"
509,"on should be demilitarized; (3) reporting the size of the CAD stockpile to the military services, the Office of the Secretary of Defense, and Congress; (4) forecasting the amount of conventional ammunition to be transferred into the CAD stockpile in the future; and (5) reporting on what ammunition has been demilitarized. The absence of weight data for some of the items in the CAD stockpile understates the size and composition of the CAD stockpile, thereby affecting DOD’s estimations of its demilitarization "
510,"needs. According to DOD officials, the reasons for the missing data in the CAD stockpile are related to the types of items transferred into the stockpile, such as older ammunition stocks that do not have complete weight data, nonstandard ammunition, foreign ammunition used for testing, components removed from larger weapons, and ammunition with records that migrated from legacy data systems. DOD officials stated they are trying to correct current records with missing or inaccurate data, particularly weight."
511," In some cases, such as older stocks, the only solution is to locate and physically weigh the ammunition item(s). DOD officials have not weighed the items because they said it would be costly and labor intensive. However, since the items without weight data are not factored into DOD’s demilitarization determination, DOD is not positioned to optimally demilitarize the most ammunition possible with the given resources available. Further, as discussed above, the number of records without weight data has increa"
512,"sed over the years, which indicates that SMCA continues to accept materiel into the CAD stockpile without weight data. Officials from all the military services said they have access to LMP and they have used LMP to search the CAD stockpile for materiel they could use, but information on DOD excess is not widely shared with other government agencies such as the Department of Homeland Security, which also uses ammunition for purposes such as training exercises. Specifically, the military services have achieve"
513,"d benefits such as cost avoidances from access to the information in LMP on the CAD stockpile. For example, an Air Force need for 280,000 rounds of 40 millimeter ammunition was met by the remanufacture of Navy 40 millimeter shells drawn from the CAD stockpile, which according to Joint Munitions Command officials saved an estimated $30 million. Also, the Marine Corps identified the need for signal flares at security check points in Iraq and Afghanistan, so they pulled 95,594 flares out of the CAD stockpile, "
514,"which according to Marine Corps officials saved the service an estimated $3.8 million. When the services have been able to fulfill needs by drawing ammunition from the CAD stockpile, financial benefits have arisen both in reduced demilitarization costs over time and reduced new procurements. DOD also has reduced its demilitarization costs by transferring some excess ammunition to other government agencies as opposed to demilitarizing the ammunition, but has made such transfers only on a limited basis. For e"
515,"xample, in fiscal year 2014 DOD provided 38 million rounds of small arms ammunition to the Federal Bureau of Investigation and 7.5 million rounds of small arms ammunition to the U.S. Marshals Service. Officials stated that the Joint Munitions Command and Army Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics (G-4) used informal methods to communicate with other government agencies on available excess ammunition. Recognizing that there are benefits to such transfers, the Office of the Executive Director for Conventional A"
516,"mmunition, in its Fiscal Year 2014 Cross-Leveling End of Year Report, included remarks indicating efforts should be made to include other government agencies in the cross-leveling process. Communicating with other government agencies on available excess ammunition could help reduce the CAD stockpile. Section 346 of Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act, as amended, requires, among other things, that serviceable small arms ammunition and ammunition components in excess of military needs not be demil"
517,"itarized, destroyed, or disposed of unless in excess of commercial demands or certified as unserviceable or unsafe by the Secretary of Defense. Before offering the excess serviceable small arms ammunition for commercial sale, however, this provision outlines a preference that DOD offer the small arms ammunition and ammunition components for purchase or transfer to other Federal government agencies and departments, or for sale to state and local law enforcement, firefighting, homeland security, and emergency"
518," management agencies as permitted by law. According to officials, DOD does not have a formal process for offering the excess small arms ammunition and components to other government agencies. This manual references 10 U.S.C. § 2576a, under which DOD is permitted to transfer (sell or donate) ammunition to federal or state agencies where the Secretary of Defense determines that the ammunition is “(A) suitable for use by the agencies in law enforcement activities, including counter-drug and counter-terrorism a"
519,"ctivities; and (B) excess to the needs of the Department of Defense.” The ammunition must also be part of the existing stock of DOD, accepted by the recipient agency on an as-is, where-is basis, transferred without the expenditure of any funds available to DOD for the procurement of defense equipment, and transferred such that all costs incurred subsequent to the transfer of the property are borne or reimbursed by the recipient agency. Finally, there is a stated preference for those applications indicating "
520,"that the transferred property will be used in counter-drug or counter-terrorism activities of the recipient agency. training and qualification requirements. However, due to budget constraints the Department of Homeland Security reduced the number of training classes. If DOD guidance outlining a systematic process to share information on excess ammunition had been in place, the Department of Homeland Security could have possibly been aware of and obtained selected ammunition needed for training classes. Stan"
521,"dards for Internal Control in the Federal Government states that management should ensure there are adequate means of communicating with, and obtaining information from, external stakeholders that may have a significant impact on the agency achieving its goals. Transfers of ammunition to other government agencies, subject to certain requirements, could support DOD’s goal of reducing its CAD stockpile in a manner consistent with section 346 of the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Yea"
522,"r 2011 as amended. Without establishing a systematic means to communicate with and provide other government agencies with information on available excess serviceable ammunition, government agencies could be spending their funds to procure ammunition that DOD has awaiting demilitarization and could provide to them. In addition, without such a means, DOD could miss opportunities to reduce its overall demilitarization and maintenance costs by transferring such ammunition to other government agencies. DOD has i"
523,"dentified a number of challenges in managing the demilitarization of conventional ammunition, and has taken actions to address them. These challenges include compliance with environmental regulations; treaties regarding certain types of ammunition; services’ forecasts of excess, obsolete, and unserviceable ammunition; and annual funding. DOD officials stated they have identified the following challenges and are taking actions to address these challenges: Environmental Regulation Compliance: SMCA officials s"
524,"tated they must follow environmental laws in demilitarizing conventional ammunition and their compliance is governed by environmental permits that cover the design and operation of facilities that deal with waste management, noise, air, water, and land emissions. Many munitions are harmful to human health and the environment, and demilitarizing large quantities of ammunition requires the rigorous control and processing of toxic substances. Some of the demilitarization processes generate additional environme"
525,"ntal hazards, such as air pollutants and waste water. Figure 2 shows the release of air pollutants from the open burning of munitions. Other demilitarization processes, such as open detonation, generate noise pollution affecting the local community. According to SMCA officials, open burn and open detonation are the primary and cheapest methods to demilitarize conventional ammunition; further, some munitions can only be demilitarized by this process. All seven depots that demilitarize conventional ammunition"
526," have the capability to demilitarize ammunition through open burn/open detonation. However, officials stated there are environmental concerns with open burn/open detonation that may force DOD to use alternate and more costly methods of disposal, like closed disposal technology, in the future. For example, officials at one demilitarization facility noted that they generally operated their open detonation demolition ranges at less than 50 percent of capacity (weight of explosive charge) due to air and noise p"
527,"ollution concerns. According to DOD officials, DOD works to ensure compliance with various environmental regulations by applying for and maintaining permits issued by federal and state agencies that regulate its demilitarization operations. Officials indicated that these permits are granted by federal and state agencies and specify which pollutants can be released and in what quantities, as well as describe in detail how each process controls pollutants and meets applicable standards. If environmental regul"
528,"ations change, DOD officials indicated they may need to renew their permits; if the permits are revised, DOD may be required to fund capital investments in equipment and processes to conform to the requirements of any new permits. SMCA officials stated they address these challenges by including in each annual demilitarization plan sufficient work for each depot to exercise existing environmental permits so the permits do not lapse. Also, they recycle or remanufacture, when possible, materiel that otherwise "
529,"would be destroyed. Finally, the officials indicated that they contract with private companies to conduct some of the demilitarization work as well. Treaty Compliance: The U.S. government is considering two treaties that, if ratified, would significantly impact U.S. demilitarization operations. One treaty is the Convention on Cluster Munitions and the other is the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines and on Their Destruction. DOD has an inven"
530,"tory of 471,726 tons of cluster munitions and 23,436 tons of anti-personnel landmines that will have to be disposed of if the United States ratifies the two treaties. Specifically, the conventions require the destruction of the respective cluster munitions and landmines inventories, and to comply, DOD officials stated that they would be forced to prioritize disposal of these weapons without concern to maximizing the reduction of the CAD stockpile. Service Forecasts: SMCA officials said that DOD’s demilitari"
531,"zation budget request frequently does not match actual funding needs. The request is based upon the estimated disposal costs required to reduce the existing CAD stockpile, as well as costs for disposing of ammunition the services forecast they will submit for disposal. Each of the services is required to submit a 5-year forecast on the amount of ammunition they expect to turn in for demilitarization each year. However, program officials indicate the services’ forecasts are generally inaccurate, which can ma"
532,"ke demilitarization planning challenging. In 2010, the Army Audit Agency found that Army officials had significantly understated the forecasted annual additions the services would transfer to the CAD stockpile from 2005 to March 2009, and these estimates were based on the projections furnished by the services. The Army Audit Agency recommended the Joint Conventional Ammunition Policies and Procedures 7 (Demilitarization and Disposal) be revised to help the military services develop better forecasts for addi"
533,"tions to the stockpile. In their 2013 follow-up report, the Army Audit Agency found that the Joint Conventional Ammunition Policies and Procedures 7 (Demilitarization and Disposal) had been revised in 2011; however, the forecast additions for fiscal year 2012 were still inaccurate. SMCA officials told us that they still received inaccurate forecast information from the services. The SMCA officials stated they have no control over the ammunition the services actually transfer year to year, and they accept al"
534,"l excess, obsolete, and unserviceable conventional ammunition into the CAD stockpile, even if it exceeds forecasts. DOD officials stated they do not have options to address any problems caused by unplanned additions to the CAD stockpile, although DOD recalculates the demilitarization plan to include the additional ammunition when appropriate. Annual Funding: SMCA officials stated that the Army requests less funding than needed to meet its critical requirement each year, which could result in the CAD stockpi"
535,"le growing if the amount of ammunition demilitarized is less than the amount of ammunition transferred from the services during the year. The critical requirement is the funding necessary to demilitarize 3 percent of the existing stockpile and the full amount of ammunition the services plan to add to the CAD stockpile during the year. In December 2013, Army Audit Agency reported the Army Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics (G-4) estimated the critical funding level for the demilitarization of conventional a"
536,"mmunition at approximately $185 million. Further, the report stated that the conventional ammunition demilitarization program is considered a lower priority when compared to other needs. The Department of the Army’s budget request for conventional ammunitions demilitarization in fiscal year 2015 was $114 million and for fiscal year 2016 it was $113 million. Officials stated that the amount of funding has caused them to be reluctant to initiate projects that increase demilitarization capacity or efficiency, "
537,"since these capabilities may not be utilized in the future due to funding shortfalls. Furthermore, officials state they lack Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation (RDT&E) funding to develop demilitarization processes for the disposal of some materiel in the CAD stockpile that cannot be demilitarized using current processes, but they expect these funds will be increased in fiscal year 2017. SMCA addresses the funding challenge each year by developing an annual demilitarization plan to dispose of as muc"
538,"h of the CAD stockpile as it can based on the amount of funding they receive. DOD officials have estimated the average cost to store, maintain, and dispose of excess, obsolete, and unserviceable conventional ammunition. DOD officials stated that in fiscal year 2015, it costs on average about $42 per ton to store conventional ammunition. This number was determined using the estimated cost to perform annual inventory counts, surveillance inspections of ammunition, and housekeeping movement of stocks to manage"
539," the storage space. Additionally, DOD officials stated that in fiscal year 2015, it costs on average about $2,000 per ton to demilitarize conventional ammunition. This cost is driven by the quantities and the complexity of the items being demilitarized. DOD has not conducted a formal analysis comparing the costs of storing excess, obsolete, and unserviceable conventional ammunition with the costs of its demilitarization and disposal. Based on our review of key DOD conventional ammunition demilitarization gu"
540,"idance, there is no requirement to conduct a cost comparison. DOD officials told us that since there is a large difference in the cost to store and the cost to demilitarize ammunition based on their estimates, they believe there is no need to conduct a formal analysis. Further, DOD officials stated their mission is to demilitarize all conventional ammunition in the CAD stockpile and the annual decisions on what to demilitarize are based on achieving that goal. For information on how SMCA officials determine"
541," what conventional ammunition to demilitarize, see appendix IV. Efficient management of the CAD stockpile and DOD’s demilitarization effort is important to ensure that as much hazardous material is disposed of as possible using the resources available. In order to meet its goals, the department needs accurate data, which requires complete and accurate documentation of the items transferred into the stockpile each year by the services, as well as ammunition already in the stockpile. Standards for Internal Co"
542,"ntrol in the Federal Government state that an entity should have controls to ensure that all transactions are complete and accurately recorded. DOD does maintain data on conventional ammunition in the stockpile and uses it to manage demilitarization efforts, but officials have not fully maintained accurate and complete weight data on some ammunition items, which factors into their decision making about what to demilitarize in a given year. Without complete and accurate data, DOD is not well positioned to ma"
543,"ke the best demilitarization decisions and to use demilitarization resources as efficiently as possible. Furthermore, efficient management of the CAD stockpile is not solely a matter of demilitarization, since some materiel in it potentially could be transferred to other agencies, in keeping with DOD regulations and statutory requirements. Such transfers could allow DOD to reduce demilitarization costs and the size of the CAD stockpile while also reducing the need for other government agencies to procure ne"
544,"w stocks of ammunition. While at times transfers have led to cost savings, there has not been a formal means to regularly communicate with external stakeholders about the availability of excess ammunition in the stockpile, which is necessary to meet DOD’s goals. Without a systematic means to communicate information on excess ammunition to other government agencies, DOD will miss opportunities to reduce the CAD stockpile and demilitarization costs through transfers. To improve the efficiency of DOD’s convent"
545,"ional demilitarization efforts, including systematically collecting and maintaining key information about the items in its CAD stockpile and sharing information on excess items with other government agencies, we recommend that the Secretary of Defense direct the Secretary of the Army to take the following two actions. To improve the completeness and accuracy of information on the weight of items in the CAD stockpile—the key measure used by DOD to manage the conventional ammunition demilitarization operation"
546,"— establish a plan to (1) identify and record, to the extent possible, the missing or inaccurate weight information for existing ammunition records in the CAD stockpile and (2) ensure that all items transferred to the CAD stockpile, including for example components removed from larger weapons and nonstandard ammunition, have the appropriate weight data. To improve the visibility and awareness of serviceable excess ammunition in the CAD stockpile that could potentially be transferred to other government agen"
547,"cies, develop a systematic means to make information available to other government agencies on excess ammunition that could be used to meet their needs. We provided a draft of this report to DOD for review and comment. In its written comments, reproduced in appendix V, DOD concurred with both of the recommendations. DOD also provided technical comments on the draft report, which we incorporated as appropriate. DOD concurred with our first recommendation that the Secretary of the Army establish a plan to (1)"
548," identify and record, to the extent possible, the missing or inaccurate weight information for existing ammunition records in the CAD stockpile and (2) ensure that all items transferred to the CAD stockpile, including for example components removed from larger weapons and nonstandard ammunition, have the appropriate weight data. DOD stated that Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics would ensure that the Secretary of the Army is tasked to identify and record, to "
549,"the extent practicable, weight data for the existing CAD stockpile and for items transferred to the CAD stockpile in the future. In response to our second recommendation that the Secretary of the Army develop a systematic means to make information available to other government agencies on excess ammunition that could be used to meet their needs, DOD stated that Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics would ensure that the Secretary of the Army is tasked to develop"
550," a systematic means to make information available to other government agencies on excess ammunition. We are sending copies of this report to the appropriate congressional committees, the Secretary of Defense; the Secretaries of the Army, the Navy, and the Air Force; and the Commandant of the Marine Corps. In addition, the report is available at no charge on the GAO website at http://www.gao.gov. If you or your staff has any questions about this report, please contact me at (202) 512-5257 or merrittz@gao.gov"
551,". Contact points for our Offices of Congressional Relations and Public Affairs may be found on the last page of this report. GAO staff members who made key contributions to this report are listed in appendix VI. The Department of Defense (DOD) has policies and procedures that help govern the demilitarization of excess, obsolete, and unserviceable conventional ammunition and DOD officials involved in the demilitarization of conventional ammunition stated they believe the policies and guidance issued are effe"
552,"ctive to govern demilitarization. Additionally, depots have used the policies and guidance to develop their own implementing guidance and standard operating procedures for use at their locations. For example, Tooele Army Depot developed a letter of instruction for the inspection and disposal of inert material and Crane Army Ammunition Plant has developed several standard operating procedures to govern the base’s demilitarization processes. The table below provides an overview of key DOD policies on demilita"
553,"rization. DOD Instruction 5025.01, DOD Issuances Program, establishes guidance for directives, instructions, manuals, and charters such as frequency of updates, length, purpose, and appropriate approval level. The guidance documents we reviewed in the table above conform to the requirements under DOD Instruction 5025.01: DOD Instruction 5025.01 provides that directives, instructions, and manuals (issuances) published before March 25, 2012 should be updated or cancelled within 10 years of their publication d"
554,"ate, and that those published or changed after that date will be processed for cancellation by the Directives Division on the 10-year anniversary of their original publication dates, unless an extension is approved. That said, even for those issuances not required to be cancelled within 10 years, an issuance is not considered current when it is not within 10 years of its publication date. The directives, instructions and manuals we reviewed in the table above conformed to this requirement. For example, DOD "
555,"Directive 5160.65, Single Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA) was published on August 1, 2008. Therefore, it is not required to be updated or cancelled until August 2018. DOD Instruction 5025.01 provides that directives should not be more than 10 pages in length (including enclosures, with no procedures, and with the exception of charters); instructions not more than 50 pages (including enclosures) or they should be divided into volumes; and manuals should be divided into two or more volumes if more "
556,"than 100 pages are required. The directives, instructions, and manuals we reviewed in the table above were within the established parameters. For example, DOD Instruction 5160.68 is 21 pages, which is within the required maximum limit of 50 pages for instructions not divided into multiple volumes. DOD Instruction 5025.01 requires that DOD directives exclusively establish policy, assign responsibility, and delegate authority to the DOD Components. Directives will not contain procedures. DOD instructions eith"
557,"er implement policy or establish policy and assign responsibilities, and may provide general procedures for carrying out or implementing those policies. DOD manuals provide detailed procedures for implementing policy established in instructions and directives. The directives, instructions, and manuals we reviewed in the table above established and implemented policy as required. For example, DOD Instruction 5160.68 assigns responsibilities and mission functions for conventional ammunition management to the "
558,"Secretary of the Army, the military services, and USSOCOM. DOD Instruction 5025.01 states that, generally, directives are to be signed by the Secretary of Defense or Deputy Secretary of Defense. Depending on the nature of the instruction, instructions must be signed by the component head in the Office of the Secretary of Defense, his or her Principal Deputy, or Office of the Secretary of Defense Presidentially-appointed, Senate-confirmed official. Manuals must be signed by an individual in one of these posi"
559,"tions, as authorized by their chartering directives. The directives, instructions, and manuals we reviewed in the table above were signed by the appropriate officials. For example, DOD Directive 5160.65 was appropriately signed by the Deputy Secretary of Defense. DOD Instruction 5025.01 states that charters must define the scope of functional responsibility and identify all delegated authorities for the chartered organization. The SMCA charter defines responsibility and authorities, for example, by delegati"
560,"ng to the Deputy Commanding General for Army Materiel Command the role of Executive Director for Conventional Ammunition and provides authorities as needed to execute the SMCA mission. To assess the extent to which the Department of Defense (DOD) has adequately maintained and shared information on the quantity, value, condition, and location of excess, obsolete, and unserviceable conventional ammunition for each military service, we reviewed DOD’s inventory data on excess, obsolete, and unserviceable conven"
561,"tional ammunition held in the conventional ammunition awaiting demilitarization and disposal (CAD) stockpile as of February 2015 to determine how complete and accurate the data are. The scope of the audit was limited to the materiel in the CAD stockpile and ammunition in the services’ inventory that was unserviceable or in excess of the services’ needs. We interviewed Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force officials to determine how they manage unserviceable ammunition and serviceable ammunition that is be"
562,"yond the services’ needs. We also determined the extent to which the information in the services’ ammunition inventory systems is useful for their purposes. We interviewed Single Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA) and service officials to learn how information on excess, obsolete, and unserviceable ammunition is shared. After initial discussions with DOD officials, we determined that the department does not consider the value of ammunition in the management of its CAD stockpile so we did not review "
563,"the value of the conventional ammunition. Further, we conducted a data reliability assessment of the Air Force Combat Ammunition System, the Navy’s Ordnance Information System, the Marine Corp’s Ordnance Information System – Marine Corps, and the Army’s Logistics Modernization Program by reviewing the services’ responses to questionnaires on the internal controls they use to manage their systems. We applied Standards for Internal Control in Federal Government as our criteria, and found that the data was suf"
564,"ficiently reliable for determining whether DOD adequately maintained information on the quantity, value, condition, and location of excess, obsolete, and unserviceable conventional ammunition in its accounts and for our reporting purposes. The questions we sent the services solicited information on the controls they had implemented in their ammunition information systems. The questions seek to determine if there were controls that restricted access to the information system to prevent unauthorized access or"
565," inappropriate use and that there were data quality controls that ensured completeness, accuracy, authorization, and validity of all transactions. We interviewed service officials in the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps to learn how ammunition is managed once the decision is made to demilitarize and transfer it to the CAD stockpile. We also interviewed officials on the visibility, accessibility, accuracy, and usefulness of the data on the CAD stockpile and determine if they have identified problems r"
566,"egarding the reliability of the data. Lastly, we reviewed policies and legislation to determine what guidance was provided on communicating excess conventional ammunition to other government agencies, and we interviewed SMCA officials about the extent to which they communicate the availability of excess ammunition to other government agencies and the challenges involved with making conventional ammunition available to government entities outside of DOD. To examine challenges, if any, DOD has identified in m"
567,"anaging the current and anticipated CAD stockpile, and if so, actions taken to address those challenges, we reviewed DOD reports on the management of the current CAD stockpile to identify any problem areas and DOD’s plans to address these problems. We visited McAlester Army Ammunition Plant and examined the management of its ammunition demilitarization operation to include storage practices and a variety of methods to destroy the ammunition. We selected McAlester Army Ammunition Plant to visit because a lar"
568,"ge portion of the CAD stockpile was stored there, and it used several methods to demilitarize ammunition. We also contacted the other six depots that store and demilitarize ammunition and requested the same information on the management of their respective ammunition demilitarization operations.in the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps to identify challenges they face in managing the stockpile and discuss the actions they have taken to address the challenges. We interviewed SMCA officials and officials"
569," To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile and the average costs of the disposal of items in the stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and demilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Command, and interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost of demilitarizing conventional ammunition to determine the factors that drive dem"
570,"ilitarization costs. Additionally, we interviewed Army officials on the process they use to make demilitarization decisions. To describe DOD’s policies and procedures governing the demilitarization of excess, obsolete, and unserviceable conventional ammunition and discuss the extent to which they are consistent with DOD guidance for developing policies and procedures, we obtained policies, procedures, and guidance on demilitarization. We determined that these policies, procedures, and guidance would be cons"
571,"idered adequate if they conformed to DOD guidance on directives and instructions. Therefore, we compared the requirements in DOD Instruction 5025.01, with the guidance governing demilitarization of conventional ammunition and determined whether DOD followed this instruction on how guidance documents should be developed and how often they should be updated.To determine the extent to which DOD policies and procedures on demilitarization of conventional ammunition are effective, we interviewed officials in the"
572," Army and contacted the demilitarization depots to obtain their opinions on the effectiveness and usefulness of DOD policies and procedures governing the demilitarization of conventional ammunition. We visited or contacted the following offices during our review. Unless otherwise specified, these organizations are located in or near Washington, D.C. Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology U.S. Special Operations Command, Tampa, Florida Defense Logistics Agency Program Executive "
573,"Office for Ammunition, Dover, New Jersey Office of the Executive Director for Conventional Ammunition, Dover, Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army (Acquisition, Logistics and Technology) Headquarters, Department of the Army, Army Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics (G-4) U.S. Army Materiel Command, Huntsville, Alabama U. S. Army Joint Munitions Command, Rock Island, Illinois U.S. Army Aviation and Missile Command, Huntsville, Alabama McAlester Army Ammunition Plant, McAlester, Oklahoma Office of th"
574,"e Chief of Naval Operations, Director for Material Readiness & Logistics (N4) Naval Supply Systems Command, Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania U. S. Marine Corps Headquarters U.S. Marine Corps Systems Command, Quantico, Virginia U.S. Air Force Headquarters U.S. Air Force Life Cycle Management Center Readiness, Ogden, We conducted this performance audit from August 2014 to July 2015 in accordance with generally accepted government auditing standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obt"
575,"ain sufficient, appropriate evidence to provide a reasonable basis for our findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives. We believe that the evidence obtained provides a reasonable basis for our findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives. The Army has seven demilitarization locations that store 98 percent of the conventional ammunition awaiting demilitarization and disposal (CAD) Stockpile. Figure 3 below shows these seven demilitarization locations, the amount of the CAD stockpile at "
576,"those locations, and the demilitarization capabilities at each location. 1. Autoclave - Autoclave capability removes and reclaims main charge cast explosives (such as TNT) from projectiles and bombs. Munitions are prepared for the autoclave by disassembly or cutting to expose the main explosive charge. They are placed in the autoclave and the vessel is heated using steam. As the munitions body heats up, the explosive melts and flows to the bottom of the autoclave for collection in heated kettles. 2. Hot Wat"
577,"er Washout - Washout capability removes and reclaims main cast explosive charges from projectiles, bombs, and mines. Munitions are prepared for washout by disassembly to expose the main explosive charge. Munitions are placed over a washout tank where low-pressure hot water is injected into the cavity to wash out the explosives into a recovery tank. 3. Cryofracture - Cryofracture involves the cooling of the munitions in a liquid nitrogen bath, followed by fracture of the embrittled item(s) in a hydraulic pre"
578,"ss and the subsequent thermal treatment of the fractured munitions debris in order to destroy the explosives and decontaminate any residual metal parts. 4. Hydrolysis – Hydrolysis uses a sodium hydroxide solution to dissolve the aluminum casing and expose the energetic materials contained within. The sodium hydroxide solution then reacts with the energetic materials, breaking them down and rendering them inert. 5. Improved Munitions Convention Download – Joint Munitions Command officials describe this as a "
579,"process developed to demilitarize artillery projectiles that contain submunitions, which are small bombs. The base plate of the projectile is removed to access the submunitions and they are removed for disposition on the open detonation range. The metal parts including the projectile body and base plate are often reused in the manufacture of new rounds. 6. Incineration - Incineration provides an environmentally acceptable means to destroy munitions not suitable for other demilitarization methods and reclaim"
580," the metal scrap for sale. Small munitions and/or components are fed on conveyor(s) into the incinerator where they burn or detonate. Metal residues are discharged and collected for salvage. 7. INERT – According to Joint Munitions Command officials, INERT is the shredding, cutting, or mutilation of munitions items, components, or packaging that do not contain energetic materials. 8. Open Burn/Open Detonation - Open burn and open detonation are the intentional combustion or detonation of explosives or muniti"
581,"ons, without control or containment of the reaction, and are the preferred method for cost-effective demilitarization of many items. Open burn and open detonation techniques were the primary means used to demilitarize munitions for several decades. 9. Slurry Emissions Manufacturing Facility – According to Joint Munitions Command officials this facility combines energetic material recovered from munitions items with other commercial ingredients to produce blasting charges the mining industry uses. 10. Steamo"
582,"ut - Steamout is similar to hot water washout in that both processes essentially melt out energetic fillers in large-caliber projectiles, bombs, and other munitions. With the steamout process, items are placed on an inclined cradle, and steam is jetted in to melt out the fill. The molten slurry is collected and sent to corrugate cooling pans. The pans are held in a vented and heated hood until the water is all evaporated and the explosive solidifies. The solidified explosive is broken into chunks, boxed, an"
583,"d then according to Joint Munitions Command officials, used as donor material for open detonation projects. 11. White Phosphorus Plant - The White Phosphorus-Phosphoric Acid Conversion Plant provides an environmentally acceptable means to demilitarize munitions containing white phosphorus by converting it into phosphoric acid. The munitions are punched to expose the white phosphorus and quickly burned. Smoke from the burning munitions is pulled through a closed loop ducting system into the wet scrubber in t"
584,"he acid plant system for conversion to phosphoric acid. The phosphoric acid is collected and packaged for sale. Metal parts are discharged and collected for salvage. To determine what conventional ammunition should be demilitarized, Joint Munitions Command officials stated they use a database tool called the Demilitarization Optimizer. To develop an annual demilitarization plan, the optimizer produces an initial list of projects, in tons, that will result in demilitarizing the most ammunition possible based"
585," on factors entered into the optimizer. Officials stated they use the optimizer as a starting point in developing the annual demilitarization plan; they make adjustments to the optimizer output to maintain demilitarization capability at the depots and to balance the work load over the years. For the demilitarization of missiles, Army Aviation and Missile Command officials stated they do not use the optimizer because they prepare their plan using the number of missiles; however, they consider many of the sam"
586,"e factors in determining what missiles to demilitarize in a given year. The optimizer is a database tool used to determine the ammunition, with the exception of missiles, that will be demilitarized, given certain parameters (e.g., inventory, depot capability and capacity, funding, transportation costs, and any mandatory workload requirements). The optimizer has been used by Joint Munitions Command since 1999 as a tool to assist in demilitarization program planning, provide justification to answer questions "
587,"received from Congress as well as Army headquarters, and provide the most economic allocation of resources among the government depots. Further, the optimizer provides Joint Munitions Command with an auditable trail of decision making and an ability to provide a quick response to “what if” questions. The optimizer database uses several data points to determine what items should be demilitarized: 1. Demilitarization inventory and forecasted additions to the CAD stockpile – the amount of ammunition currently "
588,"in the CAD stockpile and the estimated amount of ammunition that the services determine they will add to the stockpile that year. 2. Depot capability, capacity, and costs of carrying out demilitarization – depot capability is the type of demilitarization work the depot has the ability to conduct. For example, most of the depots have the capability to conduct demilitarization through open burn and open detonation. Depot capacity is the amount of work that the depot has the ability to conduct by demilitarizat"
589,"ion capability. For example, Letterkenny Munitions Center has the capacity to demilitarize 3,500 tons of ammunition each year by open burn and 1,250 tons by open detonation. The cost of carrying out demilitarization is an estimate, prepared by the depot, of the cost to demilitarizing specific ammunition using a particular demilitarization capability. Data on storage costs is not entered into the optimizer for cost calculations. 3. Funding – the amount of funding available for demilitarization based on the c"
590,"urrent fiscal year budget allocation. 4. Packing, crating, handling, and transportation – the cost of moving ammunition to the appropriate demilitarization location. 5. Mandatory workloads – any directives or management initiatives that would change the priority of demilitarization work that must be conducted. For example, if the United States signed the Convention on Cluster Munitions, DOD would be required to demilitarize all cluster munitions within 8 years. This information would be entered into the opt"
591,"imizer to ensure the treaty requirement would be met. Joint Munitions Command officials cautioned that there are some inherent uncertainties in the optimizer process that affect the outcome. One of the uncertainties is the incoming workload. While Joint Munitions Command has an estimate of how much inventory will be generated each year for demilitarization, the estimates are not perfect and leave uncertainty in the quantity of items that will be turned over for demilitarization and the time at which those i"
592,"tems will enter the CAD stockpile. Joint Munitions Command officials stated that the optimizer provides a good starting point for decision-making, based on the specific parameters described above, but they do not assign demilitarization projects based solely on the optimizer output. Officials stated that the optimizer produces a list of projects, based on tons, that would be most economical to demilitarize for that given year. However, adjustments are made to balance complex, expensive demilitarization proj"
593,"ects with simple, inexpensive demilitarization projects. Since the optimizer attempts to maximize the amount of conventional ammunition demilitarized, it tends to recommend a number of inexpensive projects. This results in pushing the expensive demilitarization projects into the future, which may increase future demilitarization costs. Therefore, to maintain a balance between future demilitarization funding needs and the current funding provided for demilitarization, officials replace some of the inexpensiv"
594,"e projects the optimizer recommends with expensive projects. Additionally, officials make adjustments to the optimizer results to ensure each depot is provided sufficient work to maintain demilitarization capabilities. Officials are concerned that if they do not provide some work to each of the depots, the depots would lose their demilitarization capability because some processes require specialized skills or training and retaining those personnel would be impossible if demilitarization was curtailed for a "
595,"significant amount of time. The loss of trained personnel would create a significant deficit in training and delay the restart of any future demilitarization operations. Further, officials are concerned they risk losing their environmental permits if demilitarization operations were stopped at an installation for a significant amount of time. For fiscal year 2015, the Joint Munitions Command and Program Executive Office for Ammunition officials stated they planned a demilitarization program of about $71 mil"
596,"lion, which would destroy about 67,640 tons of ammunition. Demilitarization officials at the Aviation and Missile Command stated they use similar factors in determining what missiles to demilitarize, including the location of the missiles, the capabilities and capacity of the depots, the estimated cost to demilitarize, and the funding available. Officials stated the Aviation and Missile Command does not use the optimizer tool, but instead the demilitarization officials coordinate with Product Manager Demili"
597,"tarization to develop an annual missile demilitarization execution plan. In addition to the factors listed above, officials also consider the safety inspections that have been conducted on each missile and push any potentially unsafe-to-store items to the top of the demilitarization list. While Aviation and Missile Command demilitarization officials do not currently use an optimizer tool, they stated that they are considering whether an optimizer database would be feasible for use with missiles. For fiscal "
598,"year 2015, the Aviation and Missile Command and Program Executive Office Ammunition officials stated they planned a demilitarization program of about $43 million, which would destroy about 141,598 missiles and components. In addition to the contact named above, Carleen Bennett (Assistant Director), George Bustamante, Lindsey Cross, Chaneé Gaskin, Kevin Keith, Carol Petersen, Michael Silver, Amie Steele, Alexander Welsh, Erik Wilkins-McKee, and Michael Willems made key contributions to this report."
599,"DOE is responsible for a nationwide complex of facilities created during World War II and the Cold War to research, produce, and test nuclear weapons. Much of the complex is no longer in productive use, but it contains vast quantities of radioactive waste related to the production of nuclear material, such as plutonium-contaminated sludge, and hazardous waste, such as solvents and hazardous chemicals. Since the 1980s, DOE has been planning and carrying out activities around the complex to clean up, contain,"
600," safely store, and dispose of these materials. It is a daunting challenge, involving the development of complicated technologies and costing about $220 billion over 70 years or more. DOE has reported completing its cleanup work at 74 of the 114 sites in the complex, but those were small and the least difficult to deal with. The sites remaining to be cleaned up present enormous challenges to DOE. DOE’s cleanup program is carried out primarily under two environmental laws. Under section 120 of CERCLA, EPA mus"
601,"t, where appropriate, evaluate hazardous waste sites at DOE’s facilities to determine whether the waste sites qualify for inclusion on the National Priorities List, EPA’s list of the nation’s most serious hazardous waste sites. For each facility listed on the National Priorities List, section 120(e) (2) of CERCLA requires DOE to enter into an interagency agreement with EPA for the completion of all necessary remedial actions at the facility. These agreements often include the affected states as parties to t"
602,"he agreements. These agreements may be known as Federal Facility Agreements or Tri- Party Agreements. Under amendments to RCRA contained in section 105 of the Federal Facility Compliance Act of 1992, DOE generally must develop site treatment plans for its mixed-waste sites. These plans are submitted for approval to states authorized by EPA to perform regulatory responsibilities for RCRA within their borders or to EPA if the state does not have the required authority. Upon approval of the treatment plans, th"
603,"e state or EPA must issue an order requiring compliance with the approved plan. The agreements are generally known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies, citizen groups, advisory groups, Native American tribes, and other organizations. In most cases, DOE’s re"
604,gulators are parties to the compliance agreements. Other stakeholders advocate their views through various public involvement processes including site-specific advisory boards. Compliance agreements in effect at DOE sites can be grouped into three main types (see table 1). Agreements of the first type—those specifically required by CERCLA or by RCRA—are in effect at all of DOE’s major sites. They tend to cover a relatively large number of cleanup activities and have the majority of schedule milestones that 
605,"DOE must meet. By contrast, agreements that implement court-ordered settlements exist at only a few DOE sites, tend to be focused on a specific issue or concern, and have fewer associated schedule milestones. These agreements are typically between DOE and states. The remaining agreements are based on either federal or state environmental laws and address a variety of purposes, such as cleaning up spills of hazardous waste or remediating groundwater contamination, and have a wide-ranging number of milestones"
606,". Most of the milestones DOE must meet are contained in the compliance agreements at its six largest sites—Hanford, Savannah River, Idaho Falls, Rocky Flats, Oak Ridge, and Fernald. These six DOE sites are important because they receive about two-thirds of DOE’s cleanup funding. In all, these sites account for 40 of the agreements and more than 4,200 milestones. DOE reported completing about two-thirds of the 7,186 milestones contained in its compliance agreements as of December 2001. Of the 4,558 milestone"
607,"s completed, about 80 percent were finished by the original due date for the milestone. The remainder of the completed milestones were finished either after the original due date had passed or on a renegotiated due date, but DOE reported that the regulators considered the milestones to be met. DOE’s six largest sites reported completing a total of 2,901 of their 4,262 milestones and met the original completion date for the milestones an average of 79 percent of the time. As table 2 shows, this percentage va"
608,"ried from a high of 95 percent at Rocky Flats to a low of 47 percent at Savannah River. Besides the 1,334 milestones currently yet to be completed, additional milestones will be added in the future. Although DOE has completed many of the milestones on time, for several reasons DOE’s success in completing milestones on time is not a good measure of progress in cleaning up the weapons complex. Specifically: Many of the milestones do not indicate what cleanup work has been accomplished. For example, many miles"
609,"tones require completing an administrative requirement that may not indicate what, if any, actual cleanup work was performed. At DOE’s six largest sites, DOE officials reported that about 73 percent of the 2,901 schedule milestones completed were tied to administrative requirements, such as obtaining a permit or submitting a report. Some agreements do not have a fixed number of milestones, and additional milestones are added over time as the scope of work is more fully defined. For example, one of Idaho Fal"
610,"ls’ compliance agreements establishes milestones for remedial activities after a record of decisionhas been signed for a given work area. Four records of decision associated with the agreement have not yet been approved. Their approval will increase the number of enforceable milestones required under that agreement. Many of the remaining milestones are tied to DOE’s most expensive and challenging cleanup work, much of which still lies ahead. Approximately two-thirds of the estimated $220 billion cost of cle"
611,"aning up DOE sites will be incurred after 2006. DOE has reported that the remaining cleanup activities present enormous technical and management challenges, and considerable uncertainties exist over the final cost and time frame for completing the cleanup. Even though schedule milestones are of questionable value as a measure of cleanup progress, the milestones do help regulators track DOE’s activities. Regulators at the four sites we visited said that the compliance agreements they oversee and the mileston"
612,es associated with those agreements provide a way to bring DOE into compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations. They said the agreements also help to integrate the requirements under various federal laws and allow regulators to track annual progress against DOE’s milestone commitments. Regulators have generally been flexible in agreeing with DOE to change milestone dates when the original milestone could not be met. DOE received approval to change milestone deadlines in over 93 percent of t
613,"he 1,413 requests made to regulators. Only 3 percent of DOE’s requests were denied. Regulators at the four sites we visited told us they prefer to be flexible with DOE on accomplishing an agreement’s cleanup goals. For example, they generally expressed willingness to work with DOE to extend milestone deadlines when a problem arises due to technology limitations or engineering problems. Because regulators have been so willing to adjust milestones, DOE officials reported missing a total of only 48 milestones,"
614," or about 1 percent of milestones that have been completed. Even in those few instances where DOE missed milestone deadlines and regulators were unwilling to negotiate revised dates, regulators have infrequently applied penalties available under the compliance agreements. DOE reported that regulators have taken enforcement actions only 13 times since 1988 when DOE failed to meet milestone deadlines. These enforcement actions resulted in DOE paying about $1.8 million in monetary penalties, as shown in table "
615,"3. In addition to or instead of regulators assessing monetary penalties, several DOE sites agreed to other arrangements valued at about $4 million. For example, for missing a milestone to open a transuranic waste storage facility at the Rocky Flats site, the site agreed to provide a $40,000 grant to a local emergency planning committee to support a chemical-safety-in- schools program. At the Oak Ridge site, because of delays in operating a mixed waste incinerator, site officials agreed to move up the comple"
616,"tion date for $1.4 million worth of cleanup work already scheduled. Also, at three sites—Paducah, Kentucky; Lawrence Livermore Main Site, California; and Nevada Test Site, Nevada—the regulators either did not impose penalties for missed milestones or the issue was still under discussion with DOE at the time of our review. The President’s budget submitted to the Congress does not provide information on the amount of funding requested for DOE’s compliance requirements. DOE sites prepare budget estimates that "
617,"include compliance cost estimates and submit them for consideration by DOE headquarters. However, DOE headquarters officials evaluate individual site estimates and combine them into an overall DOE-wide budget, taking into account broader considerations and other priorities that it must address as part of the give-and-take of the budget process. As a result, the final budget sent to the Congress has summary information on DOE’s programs and activities, but it provides no information on the portion of the bud"
618,"get needed to fund compliance requirements. DOE is not required to develop or present this information to the Congress. The President’s budget typically states that the DOE funding requested is sufficient to substantially comply with compliance agreements, but it does not develop or disclose the total amount of funding needed for compliance. Officials at DOE headquarters told us that budget guidance from the Office of Management and Budget does not require DOE to develop or present information on the cost o"
619,"f meeting compliance requirements, and they said doing so for the thousands of milestones DOE must meet would be unnecessarily burdensome. They said their approach has been to allocate funds appropriated by the Congress and make it the sites’ responsibility to use the funds in a way that meets the compliance agreement milestones established at the site level. Individual DOE sites develop information on the estimated cost of meeting compliance agreements, but the annual estimates are a flexible number. Sites"
620," develop these estimates because many of the compliance agreements require DOE to request sufficient funding each year to meet all of the requirements in the agreements. Also, DOE must respond to Executive Order 12088, which directs executive agencies to ensure that they request sufficient funds to comply with pollution control standards. Accordingly, each year DOE’s sites develop budget estimates that also identify the amount needed to meet compliance requirements. The sites’ process in developing these co"
621,"mpliance estimates shows that a compliance estimate is a flexible number. For example, two budget estimates typically completed by the sites each year are the “full requirements” estimate and the “target” estimate. The full requirements estimate identifies how much money a site would need to accomplish its work in what site officials consider to be the most desirable fashion. The target estimate reflects a budget strategy based primarily on the amount of funding the site received the previous year and is co"
622,"nsidered a more realistic estimate of the funding a site can expect to receive. For each of these budget estimates, DOE sites also include an estimate of their compliance costs. As a result of this process, DOE sites usually have at least two different estimates of their compliance costs for the same budget year. Table 4 shows how the compliance cost estimates related to compliance agreements changed under different budget scenarios at four DOE sites. The multiple estimates of compliance costs developed by "
623,"individual DOE sites indicate that DOE sites have alternative ways of achieving compliance in any given year. DOE site officials said that how much DOE plans to spend on compliance activities each year varies depending on the total amount of money available. Because many of the compliance milestones are due in the future, sites estimate how much compliance activity is needed each year to meet the future milestones. If sites anticipate that less money will be available, they must decide what compliance activ"
624,"ities are critical for that year and defer work on some longer-term milestones to future years. On the other hand, if more money is available, sites have an opportunity to increase spending on compliance activities earlier than absolutely necessary. DOE’s compliance agreements focus on environmental issues at specific sites and do not include information on the risks being addressed. As a result, they do not provide a means of setting priorities for risks among sites or a basis for decision-making across al"
625,"l DOE sites. Risk is only one of several factors considered in setting the milestones in compliance agreements. Other factors include the preferences and concerns of local stakeholders, business and technical risk, the cost associated with maintaining old facilities, and the desire to achieve demonstrable progress on cleanup. The schedules for when and in what sequence to perform the cleanup work reflect local DOE and stakeholder views on these and other factors and may not reflect the level of risk. For ex"
626,"ample, regulators at DOE’s Savannah River site told us that they were primarily concerned that DOE maintain a certain level of effort and they expected DOE to schedule cleanup activities to most efficiently clean up the site. DOE developed a decision model to determine how to allocate its cleanup dollars at Savannah River to achieve this efficiency. A group of outside reviewers assessing the system at the request of site management concluded that the model was so strongly weighted to efficiency that it was "
627,"unlikely that serious risks to human health or the environment could alter the sequencing of work. DOE officials said they revised the model so that serious risks receive greater emphasis. In response to concerns expressed by the Congress and others about the effectiveness of the cleanup program, DOE has made several attempts to develop a national, risk-based approach to cleanup, but has not succeeded. For example, in 1999, DOE pilot-tested the use of site risk profiles at 10 DOE offices. The profiles were "
628,"intended to provide risk information about the sites, make effective use of existing data at the sites, and incorporate stakeholder input. However, reviewers found that the site profiles failed to adequately address environmental or worker risks because the risks were not consistently or adequately documented. In 2001, DOE eliminated a support group responsible for assisting the sites with this effort, and the risk profiles are generally no longer being developed or used. A 1999 DOE-funded study to evaluate"
629," its efforts to establish greater use of risk-based decision-making concluded that none of the attempts had been successful. Common problems identified by the study included poor documentation of risks and inconsistent scoring of risks between sites. The study reported that factors contributing to the failure of these efforts included a lack of consistent vision about how to use risk to establish work priorities, the lack of confidence in the results by DOE personnel, the unacceptability of the approaches t"
630,"o stakeholders at the sites, and DOE’s overall failure to integrate any of the approaches into the decision- making process. However, the study concluded that the use of risk as a criterion for cleanup decision-making across DOE’s sites not only was essential, it was also feasible and practical, given an appropriate level of commitment and effort by DOE. DOE plans to shift its cleanup program to place greater focus on rapid reduction of environmental risk, signaling yet again the need for a national risk-ba"
631,"sed approach to cleanup. Without a national, risk-based approach to cleanup in place, DOE’s budget strategy had been to provide stable funding for individual sites and to allow the sites to determine what they needed most to accomplish. However, in a February 2002 report, DOE described numerous problems with the environmental management program and recommended a number of corrective actions. The report concluded that, among other things, the cleanup program was not based on a comprehensive, coherent, techni"
632,"cally supported risk prioritization; it was not focused on accelerating risk reduction; and it was not addressing the challenges of uncontrolled cost and schedule growth. The report recommended that DOE, in consultation with its regulators, move to a national strategy for cleanup. In addition, the report noted that the compliance agreements have failed to achieve the expected risk reduction and have sometimes not focused on the highest risk. The report recommended that DOE develop specific proposals and pre"
633,"sent them to the states and EPA with accelerated risk reduction as the goal. DOE’s new initiative provides additional funds for cleanup reform and is designed to serve as an incentive to sites and regulators to identify accelerated risk reduction and cleanup approaches. DOE’s fiscal year 2003 budget request includes a request for $800 million for this purpose. Moreover, the Administration has agreed to support up to an additional $300 million if needed for cleanup reforms. The set-aside would come from a re"
634,"duction in individual site funding levels and an increase in the overall funding level for the cleanup program. The money would be made available to sites that reach agreements with federal and state regulators on accelerated cleanup approaches. Sites that do not develop accelerated programs would not be eligible for the additional funds. As a result, sites that do not participate could receive less funding than in past years. To date, at least five major DOE sites with compliance agreements have signed let"
635,"ters of intent with their regulators outlining an agreement in principle to accelerate cleanup—Hanford, Idaho, Los Alamos, Oak Ridge, and Nevada Test Site. However, the letters of intent generally also include a provision that the letters do not modify the obligations DOE agreed to in the underlying compliance agreements. At Hanford, DOE and the regulators signed a letter of intent in March 2002 to accelerate cleanup at the site by 35 years or more. DOE and the regulators agreed to consider the greatest ris"
636,"ks first as a principle in setting cleanup priorities. They also agreed to consider, as targets of opportunity for accelerated risk reduction, 42 potential areas identified in a recent study at the site. While accelerating the cleanup may hold promise, Hanford officials acknowledged that many technical, regulatory, and operational decisions need to be made to actually implement the proposals in the new approach. DOE is proceeding with the selection and approval of accelerated programs at the sites, as well "
637,"as identifying the funding for those accelerated programs. At the same time, DOE is considering how best to develop a risk-based cleanup strategy. DOE’s Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management said that in developing the risk-based approach, DOE should use available technical information, existing reports, DOE’s own knowledge, and common sense to make risk-based decisions. Because DOE’s approach to risk assessment is under development, it is unclear whether DOE will be able to overcome the barriers"
638," encountered during past efforts to formalize a risk-assessment process. In the interim, DOE headquarters review teams were evaluating the activities at each site and were qualitatively incorporating risk into those evaluations. Compliance agreements have not been a barrier to previous DOE management improvements, but it is not clear if the agreements will be used to oppose proposed changes stemming from the February 2002 initiative. DOE has implemented or tried to implement a number of management initiativ"
639,"es in recent years to improve its performance and address uncontrolled cost and schedule growth. For example, in 1994, it launched its contract reform initiative; in 1995, it established its privatization initiative; and in 1998, it implemented its accelerated path- to-closure initiative. These initiatives affected how DOE approached the cleanup work, the relationship DOE had with its contractors, and, in some cases, the schedule for completing the work. Based on our review of past evaluations of these init"
640,"iatives and discussions with DOE officials and regulators at DOE sites, it appears that DOE proceeded with these initiatives without significant resistance or constraints as a result of the compliance agreements. Because DOE’s cleanup reform initiative is in its early stages, and site- specific strategies are only beginning to emerge, it is unclear how the site compliance agreements will affect implementation of DOE’s latest cleanup reforms. For example, it is not yet known how many sites will participate i"
641,"n DOE’s initiative and how many other sites will encounter cleanup delays because of reduced funding. However, early indications suggest caution. Parties to the agreements at the sites we visited were supportive of DOE’s overall efforts to improve management of the cleanup program, but expressed some concerns about proposals stemming from the February 2002 review of the program. They said that they welcome DOE’s efforts to accelerate cleanup and focus attention on the more serious environmental risks becaus"
642,"e such initiatives are consistent with the regulators’ overall goals of reducing risks to human health and the environment. Most regulators added, however, that DOE generally had not consulted with them in developing its reform initiative and they were concerned about being excluded from the process. Furthermore, they said DOE’s initiative lacked specific details and they had numerous questions about the criteria DOE will use to select sites and the process it will follow at those sites to develop an implem"
643,"entation plan to accelerate cleanup and modify cleanup approaches. Most regulators said they would not view as favorable any attempt by DOE to avoid appropriate waste treatment activities or significantly delay treatment by reducing funding available to sites. In such a case, these regulators are likely to oppose DOE’s initiative. They told us that they most likely would not be willing to renegotiate milestones in the compliance agreements if doing so would lead to delays in the cleanup program at their sit"
644,"es. In addition, these regulators said that if DOE misses the milestones after reducing the funding at individual sites, they would enforce the penalty provisions in the compliance agreements. The effect of compliance agreements on other aspects of DOE’s initiative, especially its proposal to reclassify waste into different risk categories to increase disposal options, is also unclear. Some of the proposed changes in waste treatment would signal major changes in DOE assumptions about acceptable waste treatm"
645,"ent and disposal options. For example, one change would eliminate the need to vitrify at least 75 percent of the high- level waste, which could result in disposing of more of the waste at DOE sites. In addition, DOE is considering the possibility of reclassifying much of its high-level waste as low-level mixed waste or transuranic waste based on the risk attributable to its actual composition. However, at all four sites we visited, regulators said that it is unclear how DOE’s proposed initiatives will be im"
646,"plemented, what technologies will be considered, and whether the changes will result in reduced cost and accelerated cleanup while adequately protecting human health and the environment. DOE generally did not seek input from site regulators or other stakeholders when developing its latest initiative. DOE’s review team leader said that when the review team visited individual sites, the team had not formulated its conclusions or recommendations and so did not seek regulators’ views. Furthermore, the team lead"
647,"er said that, during the review, DOE was holding internal discussions about improving ineffective cleanup processes, such as contracting procedures. To include regulators on the review team during these discussions, according to the team leader, could have created the impression that the criticism of DOE processes came from the regulators rather than from DOE and contractor staff. According to the Associate Deputy Assistant Secretary for Planning and Budget, since the review team’s proposals were made publi"
648,"c in February, DOE has held discussions with regulators at all sites and headquarters about implementing the proposals. In summary, Mr. Chairman, DOE faces two main challenges in going forward with its initiative. The first is following through on its plan to develop and implement a risk-based method to prioritize its various cleanup activities. Given past failed attempts to implement a risk-based approach to cleanup, management leadership and resolve will be needed to overcome the barriers encountered in p"
649,"ast attempts. The second challenge for DOE is following through on its plan to involve regulators in site implementation plans. DOE generally did not involve states and regulatory agencies in the development of its management initiative. Regulators have expressed concerns about the lack of specifics in the initiative, how implementation plans will be developed at individual sites, and about proposals that may delay or significantly alter cleanup strategies. Addressing both of these challenges will be import"
650,"ant to better ensure that DOE’s latest management initiative will achieve the desired results of accelerating risk reduction and reducing cleanup costs. Thank you, Mr. Chairman and Members of the Subcommittee. This concludes my testimony. I will be happy to respond to any questions that you may have. For future contacts regarding this testimony, please contact (Ms.) Gary Jones at (202) 512-3841. Chris Abraham, Doreen Feldman, Rich Johnson, Nancy Kintner-Meyer, Tom Perry, Ilene Pollack, Stan Stenersen, and B"
651,ill Swick made key contributions to this report.
652,"An unregulated child custody transfer, commonly referred to as rehoming, is not an adoption. It is a practice in which parents seek new homes for their children and place them without the safeguards and oversight of the courts or the child welfare system. This practice does not pertain exclusively to adopted children; biological children may also be subject to unregulated transfers. However, media reports and child welfare and adoption organizations have focused on unregulated transfers of adopted children "
653,"that involve families who may be unable or unwilling to deal with the emotional and behavioral challenges that may be caused by a child’s pre-adoption conditions. For example, some adopted children may have histories of long-term institutionalization (e.g., orphanages), abuse, or other traumatic experiences that affect their behavior. An adoption may be terminated as a result of a disruption, which occurs before the adoption is finalized, or a dissolution, which occurs after the adoption has been finalized,"
654," generally in a legal proceeding. Under these circumstances, the child would go into the child welfare system or be legally adopted by another family. In contrast, unregulated transfers occur when parents intend to permanently transfer custody of their child to a new family without following these steps. Sometimes the parents will use a document called a power of attorney to delegate to the new family certain authority for the care and control of the child, although such documents do not terminate the legal"
655," relationship between the adoptive parents and the child. Because power of attorney arrangements are generally not overseen by any state or federal agency, information on the whereabouts of a child subject to an unregulated transfer using a power of attorney can be limited or unknown. In addition, because families who engage in an unregulated transfer do not follow the steps required for a legally recognized adoption, there may be no checks to ensure that the new home is an appropriate place for the child. "
656,"There are different ways that a child can be adopted in the United States. International adoptions involve a child who was born in another country. Domestic adoptions can be adoptions from foster care, which involve children in the child welfare system whose biological parents have had their parental rights terminated. Other domestic adoptions include those conducted through private adoption agencies, attorneys, and others. Most domestic adoptions handled through private adoption agencies, attorneys, and ot"
657,"hers primarily involve infants or adoptions by a stepparent. Unregulated transfers do not follow the adoption process, which generally involves many steps to help ensure that the child is legally adopted and placed in an appropriate and permanent home. While the adoption process can be different depending on the state and type of adoption, it typically consists of: a home study performed by a licensed professional to assess the suitability of the prospective parents, such as their health, finances, and crim"
658,"inal history; an immigration application and petition, in the case of an international pre-adoption training for prospective parents, either online or in- person, for a specified number of hours on topics such as the adoption process and issues related to attachment and bonding; final approval of the adoption by a court, either in the United States or the child’s country of origin; and post-placement or post-adoption services, in some cases, which can range from information and referral services and peer su"
659,"pport groups to more intensive services for children with severe behavioral needs. For example, these intensive services can include mental health counseling, respite care programs to provide temporary relief for caregivers by placing children in short-term accommodations outside the home, and residential treatment, which involves extended treatment services to children while they reside outside the home. Multiple federal, state, and other agencies can be involved in different stages of the adoption process"
660,", depending on the type of adoption. Fees also vary by type of adoption; while foster care adoptions may not have any fees, international adoptions can involve substantial financial investments from families. International adoptions. As required under federal law and State Department regulations, international adoptions are generally conducted through accredited adoption agencies or approved persons. USCIS is involved in adjudicating immigration petitions for these children as well as setting federal home s"
661,"tudy requirements for international adoptions and determining the suitability and eligibility of prospective adoptive parents. The State Department also sets requirements for pre-adoption training that international adoption agencies and approved persons must provide for prospective parents. There are no federal requirements for post- adoption monitoring for international adoptions, according to State Department officials. However, officials said some countries of origin require adoptive families to provide"
662," periodic reports (e.g., according to the State Department’s website, one country requires families to provide reports every 6 months for 2 years following an international adoption). Individual states may also have separate licensing requirements for international adoption agencies operating in their state. Foster care adoptions. Foster care adoptions are typically conducted by state, county, and local child welfare agencies or private adoption agencies with which they contract. For these adoptions, states"
663," set requirements for home studies, pre-adoption training, and post-adoption services. Private domestic adoptions. States also set requirements for home studies, pre-adoption training, and post-adoption services for private domestic adoptions, generally through state licensing standards and other requirements for private adoption agencies, attorneys, and others. Some federal funding is available for adoption services, in addition to any funding from state, local, or other sources. Funding appropriated for T"
664,"itle IV-E of the Social Security Act makes up the large majority of federal funding dedicated to child welfare, comprising about 89 percent of federal child welfare appropriations (approximately $7.4 billion of nearly $8.3 billion) in fiscal year 2015, according to the Congressional Research Service. While the majority of these Title IV-E funds support children in the foster care system, the Title IV-E Adoption Assistance program provides grants to states for a portion of their costs to support families who"
665," adopted children with special needs, generally from foster care. For example, states provide ongoing monthly Adoption Assistance payments (subsidies) to eligible families that can be used to help pay for the costs of care for the child, which might include therapy and other post-adoption services. Funds appropriated for this program totaled about $2.5 billion in fiscal year 2015, comprising about 34 percent of Title IV-E program funding. In addition, Title IV-B of the Social Security Act, which is the prim"
666,"ary source of federal child welfare funding available for child welfare services, also provides funds that states can use to support adoptions by any family. For example, states may use funds to support pre- and post- adoption services, although funds can also be used for a variety of other purposes to keep children safe and in stable families. Federal appropriations for Title IV-B comprised about 8 percent of dedicated federal child welfare appropriations (approximately $664 million of nearly $8.3 billion)"
667," in fiscal year 2015. Table 1 provides a summary of federal child welfare funding that states can use for adoption services, including programs under Title IV-E and IV-B of the Social Security Act. In addition to these programs, states may use savings generated from changes made to the eligibility criteria for the Title IV-E Adoption Assistance program for adoption services. These changes made additional children eligible for federal Title IV-E Adoption Assistance payments, thereby potentially freeing up st"
668,"ate funds previously used for this purpose. The Preventing Sex Trafficking and Strengthening Families Act requires states to use 30 percent of these savings for post- adoption and related services. In addition, states may use different combinations of federal funds not specifically dedicated to child welfare to support adoption services, such as funds available under the Temporary Assistance to Needy Families block grants, Medicaid, and Social Services Block Grants. While states can use federal funds to sup"
669,"port adoption services for families, we reported in January 2013 that federal funding for services designed to prevent children from entering foster care—such as adoption support services—can be limited. HHS does not collect information on how much states spend in federal funds specifically for post-adoption services. In addition, our prior work has shown that some states may not have information on the extent to which they use these federal funds for adoption services. Although states are to use savings ge"
670,"nerated from changes to the Title IV-E Adoption Assistance program for child welfare services, we reported in May 2014 that only 21 states reported calculating these savings for fiscal year 2012, and 20 states reported difficulties performing the calculations. In 2014, the Donaldson Adoption Institute attempted to collect information on states’ annual post-adoption service budgets, excluding Title IV-E Adoption Assistance program subsidies. However, it reported that some states were unable to distinguish th"
671,"is budget item, especially when the primary programs that served adoptive families also served other families. It also reported that states with county-administered child welfare programs were unable to report total state budgets for post-adoption services. The Institute reported that annual budgets for these services ranged from $85,000 to $11.2 million in the 21 states that provided responses to the survey it conducted. International adoptions in the United States have changed over time from a system that"
672," predominantly involved the adoption of infants and toddlers to one that has involved an increasing proportion of older children and those with special needs. According to State Department data, less than 8 percent of children adopted internationally in fiscal year 2013 were younger than 1 year compared to over 40 percent in fiscal year 2004. In addition, one study reported in 2013 that nearly half of more than 1,000 parents surveyed who adopted internationally said their children had diagnosed special need"
673,"s. The State Department, HHS, and others have reported that the changing landscape of international adoptions is attributable to many different factors, including positive cultural factors and socio-economic conditions in other countries that have made it easier for biological families to take care of their children or to adopt domestically—decisions that have impacted the number of children eligible for adoption by U.S. families. About 7,000 children were adopted internationally in fiscal year 2013 compare"
674,"d to nearly 23,000 in fiscal year 2004 (see fig. 1). Children in foster care may also be more likely to have special needs than children in the general population. According to a national survey conducted in 2008 and 2009, more than 42 percent of children ages 18 months to 17 years who were placed in a foster family home following an investigation of abuse and neglect were found to be at risk for an emotional or behavioral problem and potentially in need of mental health services. Multiple studies have show"
675,"n that abuse and other maltreatment can cause changes in the brain development of children, and these changes may leave them more vulnerable to depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, and other behavioral or mental health issues. Studies show that children who are institutionalized—for example, in orphanages prior to being adopted by a family—are often subject to deprivation and neglect. Young children with a history of institutional care often show poor attention, hyperactivity, difficulty with emotion"
676," regulation, elevated levels of anxiety, and increased rates of attachment disorders. For example, they may develop Reactive Attachment Disorder, which is characterized by serious problems in emotional attachments to others. The physical, emotional, and social problems associated with this disorder may persist as the child grows older. Families who adopt children with severe behavioral or mental health issues may face situations which can put the family in crisis. For example, the adopted child may be viole"
677,"nt toward siblings or parents. One study reported in 2014 that in 23 percent of cases where adoptions were dissolved, the adopted child was a threat to the safety of other children in the home. Families may choose an unregulated child custody transfer because they were not sufficiently prepared for the challenges they experienced in their adoption, according to many child welfare and adoption stakeholders we interviewed. This lack of preparation may include inadequate information about the child’s health, a"
678,"n insufficient home study to make a good match, and minimal pre-adoption training for parents. Many stakeholders we interviewed—including officials from selected states, child welfare and adoption organizations, and adoption agencies— expressed concern with the adequacy of the information provided to prospective parents on the behavioral and mental health conditions of a child adopted internationally. Access to accurate information is critical to ensuring that a family is aware of the type of ongoing suppor"
679,"t they may need for the child. However, officials from 11 of 19 child welfare and adoption organizations and 5 of 15 adoption agencies said families who adopt internationally often do not receive complete information on a child’s medical and behavioral needs before adopting. State Department officials explained that some low-income countries lack sufficient mental health care providers, making it difficult for international adoption agencies to ensure that children are accurately evaluated prior to adoption"
680,". USCIS officials also said some countries do not allow prospective adoptive parents to review medical history documents until after an adoption is finalized for privacy reasons. Many stakeholders also expressed concern that families may not have undergone an adequate home study to ensure they are a good match for their adopted child, and several noted that the home study is a critical point in the pre-adoption process, when social workers or adoption agency staff try to determine how families will handle c"
681,"hallenges when parenting their adopted child. According to HHS officials, requirements for what should be assessed during a home study are determined by individual states for foster care adoptions. Home study requirements are determined by USCIS and the State Department for international adoptions. However, officials from 4 of 7 selected states and 8 of the 15 adoption agencies we interviewed expressed concerns about inconsistencies in the quality of home studies conducted by child welfare and adoption agen"
682,"cies across states. For example, Ohio officials said all child welfare and adoption agencies in their state are required to use a detailed home study format. They said they may not accept home studies conducted in other states that have less stringent requirements unless additional supporting documentation is provided, such as a background check and safety check of the home. Families also may not have received sufficient or targeted pre-adoption training to ensure they were prepared for their child’s specif"
683,"ic needs, particularly for international adoptions, according to most stakeholders we interviewed. For foster care adoptions, states each set their own training requirements for prospective parents, according to HHS officials. About half of all states require agencies facilitating these adoptions to provide prospective parents with at least 27 hours of training, according to data obtained from HHS officials in May 2015. Our seven selected states have requirements of 18 to 47 hours of training for foster car"
684,"e adoptions with some in-person required training in each state, according to state officials. Many of our selected states also use similar training models for foster care adoptions, including Parent Resources for Information, Development, and Education (PRIDE) and Model Approach to Partnerships in Parenting (MAPP), which were developed by various child welfare organizations. In contrast, State Department regulations require 10 hours of training for international adoptions, all of which can be online. This "
685,"training must cover topics defined by the federal regulations. Officials we interviewed from 5 of our selected states, 12 child welfare and adoption organizations, and 11 adoption agencies told us that this training may be insufficient, particularly since an increasing proportion of children adopted internationally are older and have special needs due to an extensive history of institutionalization and trauma. State Department officials told us they are considering revisions to pre-adoption training require"
686,"ments for international adoptions, which we discuss later in the report. States may set training requirements for international adoptions above the 10-hour minimum or may have required training topics. Two of our seven selected states require more than 10 hours of training, according to state officials. For example, Wisconsin officials told us the state requires 18 hours of training, and the same topics are required for international and foster care adoptions. This training covers issues such as attachment "
687,"in adoptive placement, the effects of abuse and neglect, and cultural sensitivity. In addition, this training includes opportunities to cover issues specific to the individual child (see table 2). State Department officials said international adoption agencies may also have their own training requirements beyond those of federal and state agencies. For example, officials from one international adoption agency said they require 30 hours of training for parents wishing to adopt abroad. This includes training "
688,"on grief and loss, the child’s country of origin and cultural differences, the impact of institutionalization, and potential challenges and service needs. These officials said this expanded training is more costly for both the agency and prospective parents, and that some prospective parents thought the training was too cumbersome or expensive. Officials in most of the selected states, child welfare and adoption organizations, and adoption agencies we interviewed expressed concern that families may choose a"
689,"n unregulated transfer when they cannot access post-adoption services to help them cope with or avoid reaching a crisis point in their adoption. Several of these stakeholders explained that an adopted child may deal with continuing issues of attachment, identity, and loss of previous caregivers or biological parents. While services to help adoptive families can include information, referrals, and peer support groups, families who adopted children with severe behavioral needs may need more intensive services"
690,", such as mental health counseling, respite care, and residential treatment. Many stakeholders we interviewed suggested that families considering unregulated transfers may particularly need these intensive services. All seven of our selected states provide some kind of post-adoption services for families who adopted from foster care and internationally. For example, Wisconsin officials said the state provides parent training, a 24-hour information hotline, referral services, and mechanisms to link families "
691,"to support groups and mentors, which are available to all adoptive families. Other types of services these selected states provide include lending libraries, newsletters, and brochures for parents. However, the seven selected states offered limited intensive services, particularly for international adoptions, according to our analysis of the information gathered from selected state officials. Officials from three states said their state offers counseling and other intensive services, such as case management"
692," and crisis intervention, to both families who adopted from foster care and internationally. However, officials from the six states that offer respite care and the four states that provide residential treatment told us their states provide these services exclusively to families who adopted from foster care. Some of these services have maximum time limits or are offered on a case-by-case basis. For example, Louisiana officials said their state offers respite care for up to 1 month, and Florida and Illinois o"
693,"fficials said their states offer residential treatment services to families who adopted from foster care on a case-by-case basis. In addition, our seven selected states provide varying levels of financial support to eligible adoptive families through subsidies and cash assistance programs, according to the information gathered from selected state officials. For example, Ohio officials described a state program that uses Title IV-B and state revenue funds to provide up to $10,000 per child per year to pay se"
694,"rvice providers in 2014, with an additional $5,000 available per year if the child is recommended for residential treatment by a mental health provider. In addition, all of our selected states received federal funds under the Title IV-E Adoption Assistance program to provide subsidies to eligible adoptive families; the maximum subsidy amounts ranged from $400 to $2,700 per month in 2014. However, they are generally only available to eligible families who adopted children with special needs from foster care,"
695," and information is limited on how much families use their subsidies for services, such as counseling, versus other expenses for their adopted child, such as food, clothing, and day care. The Donaldson Adoption Institute reported in April 2014 on a variety of post-adoption services provided by 49 states that responded to survey questions about such services. It found that about one-third of these states offered almost no post-adoption services other than a subsidy for adoptive families. In addition, the rep"
696,ort found that the majority of these states had services that were open exclusively to families who adopted from foster care. Officials in four of our seven selected states told us that the need for post- adoption services exceeded the funding available from state and federal programs. Our prior work has shown that child welfare agencies have struggled to meet the service needs of families. Our 2013 report found that local child welfare officials in four states we reviewed reported service gaps in multiple 
697,"areas, including counseling and mental health services. We also reported that state and local child welfare agencies may face difficult decisions when determining which activities—aimed at preserving families and preventing a child from entering foster care—to prioritize and fund, particularly in light of the ongoing fiscal challenges these agencies face. Similar to our selected states, officials from 12 of the 15 adoption agencies we interviewed said they provide some level of post-adoption services to fam"
698,"ilies, such as information and referrals. Officials in 4 of the 15 adoption agencies said they provide intensive services, ranging from trauma-focused therapy to a weekend respite care program. Officials from six adoption agencies noted that resource constraints have affected their ability to provide post-adoption services. Officials from the Council on Accreditation—the organization responsible for accrediting agencies for international adoptions—said some international adoption agencies have struggled to "
699,"maintain their businesses due to the decrease in the number of international adoptions overall (a decrease of 70 percent between fiscal years 2003 and 2014). They said while some larger agencies have been better able to provide services because they are financially stable, this can be a challenge for other agencies. Another limitation to accessing post-adoption services that many stakeholders expressed concern about was the cost of intensive services, which can be expensive for all families. Officials in 3 "
700,"of 7 selected states, 6 of 19 child welfare and adoption organizations, and 5 of the 15 adoption agencies we interviewed said services can be expensive, particularly intensive services such as mental health counseling and residential treatment. We have previously reported that the cost to support a youth in a residential setting can amount to thousands of dollars per month. In addition to cost, adoptive families may have challenges finding mental health providers that are “adoption competent”—that is, knowl"
701,"edgeable about adoption-related issues, according to officials from five selected states, seven child welfare and adoption organizations, and eight adoption agencies. These stakeholders said mental health providers who do not understand issues unique to adoptive families will likely be less effective in helping these families work through issues. For example, one official told us adoptive families need therapists who can distinguish between normal adolescent behavior and a child acting out due to grief and "
702,"loss resulting from his or her adoption. Several stakeholders also noted that families in rural areas may have even more difficulty accessing effective mental health providers. We reported in 2013 that a Florida behavioral health service provider had been advertising a child psychiatrist position for 5 years without success. In a 2011 report, we found that child psychiatrists and psychologists were among the most difficult specialist referrals to obtain for children in low-income families covered by Medicai"
703,"d and the Children’s Health Insurance Program, both of which can cover children adopted from foster care and internationally. Lastly, families may not know about available services from their child welfare or adoption agency, and therefore do not seek help when needed, according to officials from four selected states and five adoption agencies. For example, Virginia officials said families that did not adopt from foster care may not know about support services they can access through their local child welfa"
704,"re agency. Wisconsin officials also said they struggle to find sufficient resources to provide outreach to all adoptive parents about state resources. Officials from two selected states also raised concerns that families may not remember whether their adoption agency provides post-adoption services. They explained that some families may not need services for years after an adoption is final because issues may not arise until the child reaches adolescence. By that point, families may no longer have contact w"
705,"ith their adoption agency. Families in need of help may be reluctant to ask child welfare agencies for assistance, according to officials from three child welfare and adoption organizations and four adoption agencies. For example, these officials noted that there is a stigma associated with contacting child welfare agencies since those agencies are also generally responsible for investigating cases of child abuse. A few of these officials further noted that families, including those who adopted from foster "
706,"care and internationally, may fear that contacting an agency will prompt an investigation into how they care for all of their children. They also said families may be afraid that they will not be able to adopt again if they are involved with a child welfare agency. Officials in five of our seven selected states acknowledged the dilemma that families face if they contact child welfare agencies for services. In addition, officials in one selected state said parents cannot voluntarily relinquish custody of a c"
707,"hild in their state (e.g., for care or services) without being charged with child abandonment. Officials in all seven selected states said families who decide to relinquish custody to the state may be required to pay ongoing child support. Similarly, families who adopted internationally may also be hesitant to reach out to their adoption agency. Representatives from 9 of the 15 adoption agencies we interviewed told us that families may be ashamed or embarrassed to contact the agency to discuss problems. Rep"
708,"resentatives from one adoption agency explained that families have gone through a rigorous home study process to prove that they will provide a good home to an adopted child. Thus, they said these families may be reluctant to contact their agency and admit that that they are facing challenges in their adoptions. Because unregulated child custody transfers are an underground practice that happens outside the purview of the courts and the child welfare system, they are difficult to track, and no federal agenc"
709,"y keeps statistics on their occurrence. These transfers may involve an exchange of a power of attorney that may not be filed with or approved by a court of law, although it may be signed by both parties and notarized. State laws vary, but generally a parent may use a power of attorney to temporarily grant another person certain powers regarding their child’s care and physical custody, such as the authority to make medical and educational decisions. For example, a military service member may sign a power of "
710,"attorney to allow a family member or friend to take care of and make medical decisions for his or her child while he or she is deployed. However, because a power of attorney does not terminate the legal parent-child relationship, the adoptive parent still retains certain rights and responsibilities. For example, according to HHS, delegating responsibility for a child through a power of attorney does not insulate adoptive parents from state laws regarding imminent risk of serious harm. State laws determine a"
711,"ny time limits (e.g., 1 year) for grants of power of attorney, and also establish the procedures required to make such an arrangement effective. For example, officials in three of our seven selected states told us their state laws do not require power of attorney documents to be approved by a court, and officials in one selected state said their laws require court approval in certain circumstances. However, officials in three of these selected states said they were not aware of any mechanisms in their state"
712,"s to track expired power of attorney documents to determine if families are attempting to use them to permanently transfer custody. Unregulated transfers are also difficult to track because many adoptions are not monitored after the adoption is finalized. For those international adoptions subject to reporting requirements set by individual countries, reporting may occur for a limited time. For example, according to the State Department website, one country requires adoptive parents to provide information ab"
713,"out the adoption at certain time intervals for the first 2 years. Officials from the State Department and several adoption agencies we interviewed told us that while parents may sign a contract when they adopt a child saying they will report the required information to the adoption agency, parents may not comply with post-adoption reporting requirements, and agencies have little leverage to enforce compliance. In addition, officials in our seven selected states said their state does not specifically monitor"
714," whether adopted children remain with their families after the adoption is finalized. Our observations of forums on social media websites indicate that some parents have been using these venues to seek new homes for their children. We observed posts in five social media forums and found a total of 23 posts in which a person wrote that they were seeking a new family for their child. Among the 9 posts that included information on a child’s age, those ages ranged from 7 to 16. Generally, parents in these forum"
715,"s who said they wanted to transfer a child indicated that they were in distress or crisis, and most often said they were seeking a new home because of the child’s behavioral issues or severe mental illness. These children included those who were adopted from foster care and internationally. For example, one post asked for a new home for a 7-year- old boy who had been diagnosed with numerous mental illnesses, including Reactive Attachment Disorder, Oppositional Defiance Disorder, and autism, and who was phys"
716,"ically abusive to his siblings and family pets. Several posters responded with information about their family and location or said that they had sent the poster a private message. Another poster wrote that her son, who she adopted internationally, had been diagnosed with multiple mental illnesses and was currently hospitalized for psychiatric reasons, and she was seeking a new home for him. In addition, we found 40 cases in which a person posted that they wanted to adopt a child. In some cases, posters wrot"
717,"e that they had successfully completed a home study. In other cases it was not clear whether they had undergone a home study. For example, only a third of the posts we observed in one online forum referenced a home study—either that the person seeking to adopt had completed one or the person seeking a new home for the child required one. Some posters said they had adopted children already in the home, and some wrote they had adopted a previously adopted child, although it was unclear whether they had legall"
718,"y adopted the child or whether the child was transferred without court oversight. It is possible that conversations on the specifics of transferring a child were held either through private messages within the social media platform or by another means, such as email or phone. Because we did not investigate these posts further and because discussions between online participants can be continued privately, we were unable to determine whether a child was actually transferred to another family. Similarly, we we"
719,"re unable to determine, if such a transfer occurred, whether it was done through official means or an unregulated transfer. We identified 15 states in which laws were enacted, proposed legislation was introduced, or recent changes had been made to child welfare programs that were intended to safeguard children who may be subject to unregulated transfers. These included the seven states we selected for interviews as well as eight states recommended by representatives from child welfare and adoption organizat"
720,"ions because of legislative activity initiated in these states during the course of our review. Of these 15 states, 7 enacted legislation and 3 made changes to child welfare programs. In addition, legislators in 10 of the 15 states introduced proposed legislation that had not been enacted as of July 2015 (see table 3). These selected laws, proposed legislation, and other actions within the 15 states reflect a variety of approaches to addressing unregulated transfers. The most common approaches were to crimi"
721,"nalize unregulated transfers or actions that may lead to these transfers, and to restrict the advertising of children or potential homes for placement. Other approaches may deter unregulated transfers by requiring that parents or certain other individuals report cases in which custody of a child may have been transferred. Some approaches may help prevent transfers from occurring. These included revising requirements for preparing prospective parents for adoption and increasing outreach about services availa"
722,"ble to families after adopting (see table 4). The five states that enacted laws to criminalize unregulated transfers or actions that could lead to these transfers made the following changes: Arkansas and Louisiana enacted laws that define the practice of “re- homing” and impose criminal penalties for those engaging in it. The laws provide that those who commit the offense of re-homing, which each state defines differently but generally includes transferring physical custody of a child to a non-relative with"
723,"out court approval with the intent of avoiding permanent parental responsibility (or assisting in such a transfer), will be subject to a fine of up to $5,000 and imprisonment for up to 5 years. Similarly, Florida enacted a law establishing the crime of “unlawful desertion of a child,” which provides that a caregiver who deserts a child (leaves the child with a non-relative with the intent to not return and provide for the child’s care) under circumstances in which the caregiver knew or should have known tha"
724,"t the child would be exposed to unreasonable risk of harm commits a third degree felony. Maine also enacted a similar law, modifying its definition of “abandonment of a child.” This law provides that a person is guilty of child abandonment if they transfer physical custody of a child to a non-relative without court approval with the intent to avoid or divest themselves of permanent parental responsibility. The law specifies that violation of this provision constitutes different classes of crimes, depending "
725,"on the age of the child. Wisconsin enacted a law that placed parameters on parental delegations made through a power of attorney, and established criminal penalties for unauthorized transfers of children across state lines. This law provides that delegations to a non-relative of a child’s care and custody under a power of attorney may be effective for no longer than 1 year unless approved by a juvenile court, and those who violate this provision are subject to a fine of up to $10,000 and/or imprisonment for"
726," up to 9 months. In addition, the law states that any person who sends a child out of the state, brings a child into the state, or causes such actions to occur for the purpose of permanently transferring physical custody of the child to a non-relative is guilty of a misdemeanor. Six states enacted laws to restrict the advertising of children or potential homes for adoption or other permanent placement. Specifically, Arkansas, Colorado, Florida, Louisiana, Maine, and Wisconsin created or expanded prohibition"
727,"s on who can place such advertisements, limited the purposes for which these advertisements can be placed, restricted the public media that can be used (e.g., the internet), and/or provided penalties for violations. Officials from selected states, child welfare and adoption organizations, and adoption agencies we interviewed discussed some trade-offs and considerations in implementing these approaches to deterring unregulated transfers. For example, several stakeholders said a power of attorney can be used "
728,"for legitimate purposes, such as a military parent transferring custody of their child to a trusted friend while on deployment. They noted that placing additional conditions on power of attorney transfers can create a burden for these families. In addition, officials from three selected states and three child welfare and adoption organizations questioned how states could enforce the use of a power of attorney. Officials from one national organization specializing in adoption law said courts that may be invo"
729,"lved in approving power of attorney agreements have other priorities and may not have time to monitor these agreements. Several stakeholders also said families often go online to access adoption resources and peer support forums. They said states need to consider the information that these online forums provide to adoptive families when considering laws related to the internet. In addition to approaches that would deter unregulated transfers, 4 of the 15 states we reviewed enacted laws or made changes to ch"
730,ild welfare programs to improve post-adoption services for families. Specifically: Arkansas enacted a law that directed the state child welfare agency to adopt rules to ensure that post-adoptive services are provided to all parents who seek assistance to prevent their adoptions from being disrupted. Virginia enacted a law and made changes to its state child welfare programs to improve post-adoption services based on recommendations from a study it conducted on unregulated transfers. The law requires the sta
731,"te registrar to issue, along with new adoptive birth certificates, a list of available post-adoption services, and requires the state child welfare agency to provide a list of such services to the registrar and publish it on its website. In addition, Virginia officials said the state child welfare agency plans to modify the solicitation for its post-adoption services contracts to allow services to be provided by multiple regional providers rather than one statewide provider. Virginia officials said the inte"
732,"nt of this change is to increase access to services for families statewide. Illinois and New York also made changes to their child welfare programs to increase outreach specifically to new parents who adopted from foster care, although these states did not make statutory changes. Illinois developed a pilot project for agencies facilitating foster care adoptions to host celebrations and social events to build relationships with these families and connect them with other families. New York developed a brochur"
733,"e for adoption agencies to provide to new adoptive parents that includes information on unregulated transfers and possible sources of help with post-adoption needs. While many stakeholders we spoke with highlighted families’ challenges with accessing pre- and post-adoption services as key reasons for unregulated transfers, they also commented on possible challenges in implementing certain policy options to improve access to and availability of such services. For example, officials from nearly half of the ch"
734,"ild welfare and adoption organizations we spoke with said building a strong infrastructure for adoption services can be a lengthy and costly task. They said states have been trying to bolster services, but have had limited success. Given limited funding, officials from most selected states, child welfare and adoption organizations, and adoption agencies we interviewed expressed concern about the level of support for post- adoption services. Many of these stakeholders said families experiencing difficulties "
735,"in their adoptions need services, and unregulated transfers are a last resort for desperate families who feel they have no other option. They also stated that improving access to effective services may ultimately help all families meet the needs of their adopted children. Federal agencies have made some collaborative and individual efforts to address unregulated transfers, mainly by raising awareness of the need for improved pre- and post-adoption services and by sharing information with states (see table 5"
736,"). In some instances they have also collaborated with non-governmental organizations that have relationships with state child welfare and law enforcement agencies, such as the Association of Administrators of the Interstate Compact on the Placement of Children and the National Association of Attorneys General. As shown in table 5, the State Department established an interagency working group in October 2013 to develop a coordinated federal response to unregulated transfers. Other federal agency participants"
737," are USCIS, HHS, and Justice. With input from the group, the State Department began work to revise regulations regarding international pre-adoption training requirements. State Department officials said the revisions may potentially include an increased number of minimum required hours and additional required content, drawing from training curriculum used by child welfare agencies for prospective parents in foster care adoptions. In addition, the revisions may include required in-person components for train"
738,"ing. State Department officials said they plan to provide proposed revisions to the Office of Management and Budget by the end of 2015 for review, and the proposed regulations will be subject to a public comment period before being finalized. In addition, in February 2015, USCIS issued revised immigration applications and petitions which are used by certain families applying to adopt from certain countries. The revisions included a requirement that families disclose whether they have previously filed intern"
739,"ational adoption applications or petitions and the result of the filings (i.e., approval, denial, withdrawal). Additionally, the revisions require families to disclose if they have experienced a disruption or dissolution of an international adoption in the past. HHS has also taken a number of actions to help improve access to adoption services. For example, it issued a memorandum in May 2014 to states that encouraged them to promote services to all adoptive families and outlined various sources of available"
740," federal funds. The memo also shared information on how unregulated transfers may violate state laws and encouraged states to review their laws and policies. In addition, HHS awarded two cooperative agreements with 5-year project periods in October 2014 to national organizations to improve post-adoption services. The National Adoption Competency Mental Health Training Initiative aims to build a web-based training curriculum for child welfare professionals and mental health practitioners to meet the mental h"
741,"ealth needs of adopted children, develop a national certification process for those completing it, and evaluate its outcomes and effectiveness. The National Quality Improvement Center for Adoption/Guardianship Support and Preservation aims to develop evidence-based pre- and post-adoption interventions and services for prospective and current adoptive families. Interventions and services will be evaluated at six to eight selected sites (e.g., state, county, or tribal child welfare agencies). Both projects ar"
742,"e expected to be completed in September 2019. HHS officials also noted that information on pre-adoption requirements and post-adoption services, by state, is available on HHS’s Child Welfare Information Gateway, a website that provides information, resources, and tools on child welfare, child abuse and neglect, out-of-home care, adoption, and other topics. In addition, they said HHS has been involved in discussions with states regarding post-adoption services over the years. For example, HHS hosted a confer"
743,"ence on the needs of adopted children—including post-adoption services—in August 2012, and was involved in a forum on unregulated transfers and services for adoptive families in February 2014 through the National Association of State Adoption Programs, Inc. Because states are responsible for much of the work to improve adoption services, the interagency working group has collaborated with national organizations to share information with states. Specifically, Justice worked with the National Association of A"
744,"ttorneys General to gather information on existing state laws and pending legislative proposals to address unregulated transfers. Research fellows at the National Association compiled this information for all states. The organization also requested information from all state attorneys general offices, and received responses from six states and the District of Columbia. The organization completed this work in June 2015, and Justice officials said they are reviewing the study and will work with the interagenc"
745,"y working group to determine next steps, if any, to be taken. In addition, the Association of Administrators of the Interstate Compact on the Placement of Children is working to develop a national outreach campaign to raise awareness about unregulated transfers and provide information on alternatives to this practice. Officials from the Association said they are in the process of soliciting funds from private and non-profit organizations to support such a campaign. Despite these efforts, federal officials a"
746,"cknowledged that gaps in services for adoptive families remain, and determining how to provide them is a difficult task for public and private agencies working with these families. For example, HHS officials noted limitations to the federal government’s ability to support post-adoption services. They said that while all adopted children will need some level of support after an adoption is final, the main source of federal support—the Title IV-E Adoption Assistance program—is limited, and is generally availa"
747,"ble only to families who adopted eligible children from foster care. Consistent with our findings in previous reports, HHS officials said funds from other federal programs that states can use to support services for private adoptions, including international adoptions, are limited. Officials said families who cannot afford services on their own must often rely on services supported by state and local funding or those provided by private adoption agencies, and funds from these sources are also limited. HHS o"
748,"fficials told us that the administration included in its fiscal year 2016 budget request a legislative proposal that would provide an increase of $587 million over 10 years for pre- and post-adoption services. They said this funding would target services to families with children who may be subject to unregulated transfers as well as those at risk of entering foster care due to an adoption in crisis. Federal officials said they will continue to examine ways to address unregulated transfers. For example, the"
749," State Department has developed a charter to outline its goals and plans for future work. State Department officials said they will use this charter to facilitate future efforts with the interagency working group. We provided a draft of this report to the Secretaries of Health and Human Services, Homeland Security, and State and the Attorney General of the United States for review and comment. The Departments of Health and Human Services, Homeland Security, and State provided technical comments that were in"
750,"corporated, as appropriate. The Department of Justice had no comments. We are sending copies of this report to relevant congressional committees, the Secretaries of Health and Human Services, Homeland Security, and State, the Attorney General of the United States, and other interested parties. In addition, this report will be available at no charge on GAO’s website at http://www.gao.gov. If you or your staffs have any questions about this report, please contact me at (202) 512-7215 or brownke@gao.gov. Conta"
751,"ct points for our Offices of Congressional Relations and Public Affairs may be found on the last page of this report. GAO staff that made key contributions to this report are listed in appendix II. GAO examined (1) the reasons adoptive families consider unregulated child custody transfers, and services that exist to support these families before they take such an action; (2) what is known about the prevalence of these transfers; and (3) actions selected states and federal agencies have taken to help address"
752," such transfers. To address these objectives, we used a variety of methods. Specifically, we conducted interviews with 45 agencies and organizations, including officials from federal and selected state agencies, child welfare and adoption organizations, and adoption agencies, to acquire a range of perspectives on this topic; reviewed relevant federal laws and regulations, selected state laws, and federal and selected state policies; reviewed and analyzed documentation provided by officials we interviewed; c"
753,"onducted a search of related literature and reviewed relevant articles; and searched online forums on selected social media sites to find illustrative examples of families who may be considering unregulated transfers. Because children adopted domestically as infants and those in biological families may be less likely to have mental health issues due to trauma and institutionalization, and reports of unregulated transfers have primarily pertained to children adopted internationally or from foster care, our r"
754,"eport focuses on international and foster care adoptions. To understand why families consider unregulated child custody transfers, what training and services are available to adoptive families, and actions selected states and federal agencies have taken to help address such transfers, we conducted interviews with 45 agencies, states, and organizations, including federal officials, representatives from national child welfare and adoption organizations, officials from selected states, and representatives from"
755," adoption agencies. Federal officials we interviewed included those from the Department of State (State Department), the Department of Homeland Security’s U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), and the Department of Justice (Justice). We interviewed representatives from 19 organizations that work on child welfare and adoption issues. The 19 organizations we interviewed were selected to represent a variety of views on adoption and child welfare- "
756,"related policy, training, and research. For example, these organizations specialized in certain aspects of adoption, including adoption law, home studies, pre-adoption training, and post-adoption services. We interviewed the following child welfare and adoption organizations and experts: American Academy of Adoption Attorneys; American Bar Association’s Center on Children and the Law; Association of Administrators of the Interstate Compact on the Placement of Children; Center for Adoption Policy; Center for"
757," Adoption Support and Education; Child Welfare League of America; Coalition for Children, Youth, and Families; Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute; Council on Accreditation; the Donaldson Adoption Institute; Joint Council on International Children’s Services; Madeline Freundlich; Maureen Flatley; National Center for Missing and Exploited Children; National Center on Adoption and Permanency; National Conference of State Legislatures; North American Council on Adoptable Children; Spaulding for Child"
758,"ren; and Voice for Adoption. In addition, we interviewed officials from state child welfare agencies and other relevant offices in seven selected states: Colorado, Florida, Illinois, Louisiana, Ohio, Virginia, and Wisconsin. These states were chosen based on factors such as legislative activity related to unregulated transfers in the state, as identified by representatives from child welfare and adoption organizations during our initial interviews, and the state’s post-adoption programs. These states also p"
759,"rovided variety in numbers of adoptions in relation to the state’s population. Interviews with officials were conducted through site visits to Florida and Wisconsin, and phone calls to the remaining states. In the states selected, the team conducted interviews with officials from state child welfare agencies and other relevant offices, such as those from state attorney general offices, departments of justice, and adoption agency licensing offices. Finally, we interviewed representatives from 15 internationa"
760,"l and domestic adoption agencies. The adoption agencies we interviewed were selected from those either recommended by national organization representatives or those licensed or accredited in the states we visited in- person to achieve variation in agency size, including budget and staff and types of adoptions facilitated. For example, 11 of the 15 adoption agencies facilitate international adoptions. The remaining 4 agencies facilitate domestic adoptions only, such as through the child welfare system (throu"
761,"gh a contract with the state child welfare agency) or privately. In the report we refer to different types of organizations when reporting information from our interviews with the 7 selected states, 19 child welfare and adoption organizations, and 15 adoption agencies. References to “stakeholders” include responses from officials in all three of these groups. In our interviews with stakeholders, we used a semi-structured interview protocol that included open-ended questions about reasons that families may c"
762,"onsider unregulated transfers, types of services adoptive families may need to prevent them from resorting to these transfers, and types of services that are available to adoptive families. Information was volunteered by officials in each interview in response to these open- ended questions. Thus, the counts of organizations citing such responses vary. “All” stakeholders represents 41 “Most” stakeholders represents 21-40 “Many stakeholders” represents 10-20 “Several” stakeholders represents 4-9 “A few” stak"
763,"eholders represents 2-3 We reviewed relevant documents to corroborate information obtained in our interviews. To examine federal efforts related to unregulated transfers, we reviewed relevant documents obtained in our interviews with federal officials. We also reviewed relevant federal laws, regulations, and policies on agency roles and responsibilities as well as GAO criteria on internal controls. To examine selected state efforts related to unregulated transfers, we reviewed information on recently enacte"
764,"d laws, proposed legislation, and other documents provided by child welfare and other agency officials in our seven selected states. Through our interviews with representatives from child welfare and adoption organizations and others, we identified at least eight additional states that had initiated legislative activity related to unregulated transfer since we began our review: Arkansas, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Nebraska, New York, North Carolina, and South Carolina. For these eight identified states"
765,", we also reviewed relevant laws, proposed legislation, and other documents provided by child welfare and other agency officials in these states. For proposed legislation, we reviewed only the version confirmed by the state officials. We did not do further research on the status of these proposals; therefore, additional changes may have been made that are not reflected in this report, and some proposed legislation included in the report may no longer be pending. We asked officials in the 15 selected and ide"
766,"ntified states to confirm whether their state had enacted a law, introduced proposed legislation, or took other relevant activity as of July 2015. We did not report on such activity after this date. Since we did not attempt to identify all activity related to unregulated transfers in all states, there may be other states with relevant legislative or other activity not included in our review. We conducted a search of literature related to unregulated child custody transfers in order to gather information abo"
767,"ut why families may consider these transfers, what policies exist to safeguard children who might be subject to such transfers, what training is required to adopt, and what services are available to adoptive families. While our search resulted in some literature on adoption dissolutions and disruptions as well as services for adoptive families, we were unable to locate academic literature regarding unregulated transfers. We searched online forums on selected social media sites to find illustrative examples "
768,"of families who may be considering unregulated child custody transfers. Using keywords such as “rehoming” and “adoption disruption,” we searched selected social media sites to locate online forums—such as groups and message boards—that parents might use to seek new homes for their children. For example, these forums were characterized on the sites as support groups for parents who wish to dissolve an adoption or whose children have behavioral issues. The results of our searches were not exhaustive as we wer"
769,"e unable to ascertain whether we identified most or all social media sites and forums with online activity that may relate to unregulated child custody transfers. We observed posts by participants in eight forums on two websites over a 15-month time period (January 1, 2014, through April 1, 2015). We analyzed posts on two of the eight forums that involved individuals who posted that they were seeking a new family for their child or who posted that they wanted to adopt a child. We did not find posts involvin"
770,"g individuals seeking a new family for their child in the remaining six forums. The online posts we identified did not provide sufficient information to determine whether the posters intended to pursue an unregulated transfer, or to pursue an adoption or other legal placement. Since we did not investigate individual cases, our approach did not allow us to determine whether the information posted by online participants was accurate. Moreover, because discussions between online participants can be continued p"
771,"rivately, we were unable to determine whether a child was actually transferred to another family and, if so, whether this was done through a court-approved process or through an unregulated transfer. One of the eight forums we observed was shut down in March 2015 by the social media site that hosted it. We conducted this performance audit from October 2014 to September 2015 in accordance with generally accepted government auditing standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obta"
772,"in sufficient, appropriate evidence to provide a reasonable basis for our findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives. We believe that the evidence obtained provides a reasonable basis for our findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives. In addition to the contact name above, the following staff members made key contributions to this report: Elizabeth Morrison, Assistant Director; Elizabeth Hartjes; Nhi Nguyen; and Amy Sweet. Also contributing to this report were: Susan Aschoff; Laurel"
773, Beedon; Maurice Belding; Sarah Cornetto; Sara Edmondson; Kirsten Lauber; Ashley McCall; Mimi Nguyen; Brynn Rovito; and Almeta Spencer.
774,"In fiscal year 2007, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) paid about $37.5 billion in disability compensation and pension benefits to more than 3.6 million veterans and their families. Through its disability compensation program, the VBA pays monthly benefits to veterans with service- connected disabilities (injuries or diseases incurred or aggravated while on active military duty). Monthly benefit amounts vary according to the severity of the disability. Through its pension benefit program, VBA pays mon"
775,"thly benefits to wartime veterans with low incomes who are either elderly or permanently and totally disabled for reasons not service- connected. In addition, VBA pays dependency and indemnity compensation to some deceased veterans’ spouses, children, and parents and to survivors of servicemembers who died while on active duty. When a veteran submits a benefits claim to any of VBA’s 57 regional offices, a Veterans Service Representative (VSR) is responsible for obtaining the relevant evidence to evaluate th"
776,"e claim. For disability compensation benefits, such evidence includes veterans’ military service records, medical examinations, and treatment records from VA medical facilities and private providers. Once a claim is developed (i.e., has all the necessary evidence), a Rating Veterans Service Representative (RVSR) evaluates the claim, determines whether the claimant is eligible for benefits, and assigns a disability rating based on degree of impairment. The rating determines the amount of benefits the veteran"
777," will receive. For the pension program, claims processing staff review the veteran’s military, financial, and other records to determine eligibility. Eligible veterans receive monthly pension benefit payments based on the difference between their countable income, as determined by VA, and the maximum pension amounts as updated annually by statute. In fiscal year 2007, VBA employed over 4,100 VSRs and about 1,800 RVSRs to administer the disability compensation and pension programs’ caseload of almost 3.8 mil"
778,"lion claims. In 2001 the VA Claims Processing Task Force noted that VSRs were responsible for understanding almost 11,000 separate benefit delivery tasks, such as tasks in claims establishment, claims development, public contacts, and appeals. To improve VBA’s workload controls, accuracy rates, and timeliness, the Task Force recommended that VA divide these tasks among a number of claims processing teams with defined functions. To that end, in fiscal year 2002, VBA developed the Claims Processing Improvemen"
779,"t model that created six claims processing teams, based on phases of the claims process. (See table 1.) According to one VA official, new claims processing staff generally begin as VSRs and typically have a probationary period of about one year. After their probationary period ends, staff can either continue to qualify to become senior VSRs or apply for RVSR positions. VSRs are also given the option to rotate to other VSR claim teams to gain a broader understanding of the claims process. VBA has established"
780," a standardized curriculum for training new VSRs and RVSRs on how to process claims, and it has an 80-hour annual training requirement for both new and experienced staff; however, it does not hold individual staff accountable for meeting this requirement. VBA has designed a uniform curriculum for training new VSRs and RVSRs that is implemented in three phases—initial orientation training, a 3-week training session referred to as centralized training, and comprehensive on- the-job and classroom training afte"
781,"r centralizing training. It also requires all staff to meet an annual 80-hour training requirement. To ensure that staff meet this requirement, each regional office must develop an annual training plan, which can contain a mix of training topics identified by VBA central office and by the regional office. However, individual staff members are not held accountable for meeting their training requirement. VBA has a highly structured, three-phased program for all new claims processors designed to deliver standa"
782,"rdized training, regardless of training location or individual instructors. (See fig. 1.) For example, each topic included in this training program contains a detailed lesson plan with review exercises, student handouts, and copies of slides used during the instructor’s presentation. Each phase in this program is designed to both introduce new material and reinforce material from the previous phase, according to a VBA official. According to VBA policy, the first phase of training for new VSRs and RVSRs is p"
783,"rerequisite training. New VSRs and RVSRs begin prerequisite training at their home regional office as soon as they begin working. Prerequisite training lays the foundation for future training by introducing new VSRs to topics such as the software applications used to process and track claims, medical terminology, the system for maintaining and filing a case folder, and the process for requesting medical records. Although VBA specifies the topics that must be covered during prerequisite training, regional of"
784,"fices can choose the format for the training and the time frame. New VSRs and RVSRs typically spend 2 to 3 weeks completing prerequisite training in their home office before they begin the second program phase, centralized training. During what is referred to as centralized training, new VSRs and RVSRs spend 3 weeks in intensive classroom training. Participants from multiple regional offices are typically brought together in centralized training sessions, which may occur at their home regional office, anoth"
785,"er regional office, or the Veterans Benefits Academy in Baltimore, Maryland. According to VBA officials in three of the four offices we visited, bringing together VSRs and RVSRS from different regional offices helps to promote networking opportunities, while VBA officials from two of these offices also stated that it provides a nationwide perspective on VBA. Centralized training provides an overview of the technical aspects of the VSR and RVSR positions. Training instructors should follow the prescribed sch"
786,"edule and curriculum dictating when and how material is taught. For example, for a particular topic, the instructor’s guide explains the length of the lesson, the instructional method, and the materials required; lays out the information that must be covered; and provides exercises to review the material. (See fig. 2 for a sample of an instructor’s guide from the centralized training curriculum.) Centralized training classes have at least three instructors, but the actual number can vary depending on the si"
787,"ze of the group. VBA’s goal is to maintain a minimum ratio of instructors to students. The first week of centralized training for VSRs focuses on key concepts, such as security, privacy and records management; terminology; and job tools, such as the policy manual and software applications. The final 2 weeks of training focus on the different roles and responsibilities of VSRs on the Pre-determination and Post-determination teams in processing claims. To practice processing different types of claims and proc"
788,"essing claims from start to finish, VSRs work on either real claims or hypothetical claims specifically designed for training. Centralized training for new RVSRs—many of whom have been promoted from the VSR position— focuses on topics such as systems of the human body, how to review medical records, and how to interpret a medical exam. According to staff in one site we visited, RVSRs new to VBA also take VSR centralized training or its equivalent to learn the overall procedures for processing claims. To acc"
789,"ommodate the influx of new staff it must train, in fiscal year 2007 VBA substantially increased the frequency of centralized training and is increasing student capacity at the Veterans Benefits Academy. During fiscal year 2007, VBA held 67 centralized training sessions for 1,458 new VSRs and RVSRs. Centralized training sessions were conducted at 26 different regional offices during fiscal year 2007, in addition to the Veterans Benefits Academy. By comparison, during fiscal year 2006, VBA held 27 centralized"
790," training sessions for 678 new claims processors. To implement centralized training, VBA relies on qualified regional office staff who have received training on how to be an instructor. According to VBA officials, centralized training instructors may be Senior VSRs, RVSRs, supervisors, or other staff identified by regional office managers as having the capability and the right personality to be effective instructors. Potential instructors have certain training requirements. First, they must complete the wee"
791,"k-long Instructor Development Course, which covers the ways different adults learn, the process for developing lesson plans, and the use of different training methods and media. During this course, participants are videotaped and given feedback on their presentation style. In addition, each time instructors teach a centralized training session, they are supposed to take the 2.5 day Challenge Curriculum Course, designed to update instructors on changes to the curriculum and general training issues. Between O"
792,"ctober 2006 and February 2008, about 250 VSRs and RVSRs from regional offices completed the Instructor Development Course, and VBA officials reported that, given the influx of new VSRs and RVSRs, they are increasing the number of times this course is offered in order to train more instructors. Instructors can teach centralized training sessions in their home office, another regional office, or the Veterans Benefits Academy. When new VSRs and RVSRs return to their home office after centralized training, they"
793," are required to begin their third phase of training, which is supposed to include on-the-job, classroom, and computer-based training, all conducted by and at their regional office. In the regional offices we visited, managers indicated that new VSRs and RVSRs typically take about 6 to 12 months after they return from centralized training to complete all the training requirements for new staff. During this final phase, new claims processing staff cover more advanced topics, building on what they learned in "
794,"centralized training. Under the supervision of experienced claims processors, they work on increasingly complex types of real claims. On-the-job training is supplemented in the offices we visited by regular classroom training that follows a required curriculum of courses developed by VBA’s Compensation and Pension Service, specifically for new VSRs and RVSRs. For example, new VSRs might complete a class in processing burial claims and then spend time actually processing such claims. The amount of time spent"
795," working on each type of claim varies from a couple of days to a few weeks, depending on the complexity of the claim. On-the-job training is also supposed to be supplemented with modules from the Training and Performance Support System (TPSS), an interactive on-line system that can be used by staff individually or in a group. TPSS modules provide detailed lessons, practice cases, and tests for VSRs and RVSRs. Modules for new VSRs cover topics such as burial benefits and medical terminology; RVSR modules cov"
796,"er topics such as the musculoskeletal system, general medical terminology, and introduction to post-traumatic stress disorder. A policy established by VBA’s Compensation and Pension Service requires both new and experienced VSRs and RVSRs to complete a minimum of 80 hours of technical training annually, double the number VBA requires of its employees in other technical positions. VBA officials said this higher training requirement for VSRs and RVSRs is justified because their jobs are particularly complex a"
797,"nd they must work with constantly changing policies and procedures. The 80-hour training requirement has two parts. At least 60 hours must come from a list of core technical training topics identified by the central office of the Compensation and Pension Service. For example, core topics for VSRs in fiscal year 2007 included establishing veteran status and asbestos claims development; topics for RVSRs included due process provisions and eye-vision issues. VBA specifies more core topics than are necessary to"
798," meet the 60-hour requirement, so regional offices can choose those topics most relevant to their needs. They can also choose the training method used to address each topic, such as classroom or TPSS training. (See app. II for the list of core technical training topics for fiscal year 2007.) Regional offices determine the training topics that are used to meet the remaining 20 hours, based on local needs and input. Regional offices may select topics from the list of core technical training topics or identify"
799," other topics on their own. The four regional offices we visited varied in the extent to which they utilized their discretion to choose topics outside the core technical training topics in fiscal year 2007. Two sites selected the required 60 hours of training from the core requirements and identified their own topics for the remaining 20 hours. In the other two sites, almost all the training provided to staff in fiscal year 2007 was based on topics from the list of core requirements. An official in one regi"
800,"onal office, for example, said that his office used its full 20 hours to provide training on new and emerging issues that are not covered by the core technical training topics, as well as training to address error prone areas. An official in another regional office said the core requirements satisfied staff training needs in fiscal year 2007, possibly because this regional office had a large proportion of new staff and the core topics are focused on the needs of new staff. Regional offices must develop trai"
801,"ning plans each year that indicate which courses will actually be provided to staff to enable them to meet the 80- hour training requirement. The training plan is a list of courses that the regional office plans to offer throughout the year, as well as the expected length and number and types of participants in each course. In the regional offices we visited, when managers develop their training plans, they solicit input from supervisors of VSRs and RVSRs and typically also consider national or local error "
802,"trend data. Regional offices must submit their plans to the VBA central office at the beginning of each fiscal year for review and feedback. Central office officials review the plans to determine whether (1) the regional office will deliver at least 60 hours of training on the required core topics, (2) the additional topics identified by the regional office are appropriate, and (3) staff in similar positions within an office receive the same level and type of training. According to central office officials,"
803," they provide feedback to the regional offices on their current plans as well as guidance on what topics to include in the next year’s training plans. Regional offices can adjust their training plans throughout the year to address shifting priorities and unexpected training needs. For example, a regional office may add or remove courses from the plan in response to changing trends in errors or policy changes resulting from legal decisions. (See app. III for excerpts from the fiscal year 2007 training plans "
804,"from the regional offices we visited.) While regional offices have discretion over the methods they use to provide training, the four offices we visited relied primarily on classroom training in fiscal year 2007. In each of these offices, at least 80 percent of the total fiscal year 2007 training hours completed by all claims processors was in the form of classroom instruction (see fig. 3). Officials in two of the regional offices we visited said they used lesson plans provided by the Compensation and Pensi"
805,"on Service and adapted these plans to the needs of their staff; one regional office developed its own courses. An official in one office said they sometimes invite guest speakers, and an official in another regional office said that classroom training is sometimes delivered as part of team meetings. The offices we visited generally made little use of other training methods. Only one office used TPSS for its training more than 1 percent of the time. Two offices used self-instruction—such as reading memos fro"
806,"m VBA central office—for about 10 percent of their training, and no office used videos for more than 1 percent of their training. The central office usually communicates immediate policy and regulatory changes through memos called Fast Letters, which may be discussed in team meetings or may just be read by staff individually. Because the agency has no policy outlining consequences for individual staff who do not complete their 80 hours of training per year, individual staff are not held accountable for meet"
807,"ing their annual training requirement, and at present, VBA central office lacks the ability to track training completed by individual staff members. According to VBA officials, however, the agency is in the process of implementing an automated system that should allow it to track the training each staff member completes. Officials reported that this system is expected to be implemented during fiscal year 2008. VBA officials reported that this system will be able to record the number of training hours and th"
808,"e courses completed for each individual, staff position, and regional office. One official said the central office and regional office supervisors will have the ability to monitor training completed by individual staff members, but that central office will likely not monitor the training completed by each individual staff member, even though it may monitor the training records for a sample of staff members. Furthermore, despite the absence of a VBA- wide tracking system, managers in two of the regional offi"
809,"ces we visited reported using locally developed tracking methods to determine the number of training hours their staff had completed. While individuals are not held accountable, VBA reported taking some steps to ensure that staff complete the required number of training hours. VBA central office periodically reviews the aggregated number of training hours completed at each regional office to determine whether the office is on track to meet the training requirement. According to a VBA official, managers in o"
810,"ffices where the staff is not on track to complete 80 hours of training during the year can be reprimanded by a higher-level manager, and if their staff do not meet the aggregate training hours at the end of the fiscal year, managers could face negative consequences in their performance assessments. VBA is taking steps to strategically plan its training for VSRs and RVSRs including the establishment of a training board to assess VBA’s training needs. VBA has also made some effort to evaluate its training fo"
811,"r new staff, but does not require regional offices to collect feedback from staff on any of the training they provide. Although some regional offices collect some training feedback, it is not shared with VBA central office. Both new and experienced staff we interviewed did, in fact, report some problems with their training. A number of new staff raised issues with how consistently their training curriculum was implemented. Experienced staff differed in their assessments of the VBA’s annual training requirem"
812,"ent, with some indicating they struggle to meet this requirement because of workload pressures or that training topics are sometimes redundant or not relevant to their position. VBA is taking steps to strategically plan its training for claims processors, in accordance with generally accepted practices identified by GAO. (See app. I for a detailed description of these generally accepted practices.) VBA has made an effort to align training with the agency’s mission and goals. According to VBA documents, in f"
813,"iscal year 2004 an Employee Training and Learning Board (board) was established to ensure that training decisions within the VBA are coordinated; support the agency’s strategic and business plans, goals and objectives; and are in accordance with the policy and vision of VBA. Some of the board’s responsibilities include establishing training priorities and reviewing regional office and annual training plans. VBA has identified the skills and competencies needed by VBA’s claims processing workforce. VBA devel"
814,"oped a decision tree and task analysis of the claims process, which GAO experts in the field of training told us made it possible to understand and map both the claims process and the decisions associated with it that supported the development of VBA’s training curriculum. VBA is taking steps to determine the appropriate level of investment in training and prioritize funding. According to VBA documents, some of the board’s responsibilities include developing annual training budget recommendations and identi"
815,"fying and recommending training initiatives to the Under Secretary of Benefits. VBA officials also reported developing several documents that made a business case for different aspects of VBA’s training, such as VA’s annual budget and the task analysis of the VSR and RVSR job positions. According to one VBA official, the agency identifies regulatory, statutory, and administrative changes as well as any legal or judicial decisions that affect how VBA does business and issues guidance letters, or Fast Letters"
816,", which can be sent out several times a year, to notify regional offices of these changes. Also, as a result of Congress authorizing an increase in its number of full-time employees and VBA’s succession planning efforts, VBA has increased the number of centralized training sessions for new staff and has also increased the number of Instructor Development Courses offered to potential centralized training instructors. As a result, VBA is taking steps to consider government reforms and initiatives to improve i"
817,"ts management and performance when planning its training. According to accepted practices, federal agencies should also evaluate their training programs and demonstrate how these efforts help employees, rather than just focusing on activities or processes (such as number of training participants or hours of training). VBA has made some efforts to evaluate its training for claims processors. During the 3-week centralized training session for new staff, VBA solicits daily feedback from participants using form"
818,"s that experts in the training field consider well- constructed and well-balanced. According to one GAO expert, the forms generally employ the correct principles to determine the effectiveness of the training and ascertain whether the instructor effectively presented the material (see fig. 4). VBA officials told us that they have used this feedback to improve centralized training for new staff. Management at one regional office cited the decision to separate training curricula for VSRs on Pre- determination"
819," teams and VSRs on Post-determination teams as an example of a change based on this feedback. Although VBA evaluates centralized training, it does not require regional offices to obtain feedback from participants on any of the training they provide to new and experienced staff. In a previous GAO report, VA staff told us that new training materials they develop are evaluated before being implemented. However, none of the regional offices we visited consistently collect feedback on the training they conduct. "
820,"Supervisors from three of the regional offices we visited told us that they collect feedback on some of the training their office conducts, but this feedback largely concerns the performance of the instructor. Participants are generally not asked for feedback on course content. Moreover, regional offices we visited that do, to some degree, collect feedback do not share this information with VBA. According to GAO experts in the training field, VBA’s training curriculum for new staff appears well designed. VB"
821,"A’s curriculum for new staff conforms to adult learning principles, carefully defining all pertinent terms and concepts, and providing abundant and realistic examples of claims work. GAO experts also determined that VBA’s training for those who teach the curriculum for new staff was well designed and would enable experienced claims processors to become competent trainers because they are coached on teaching theory and have multiple opportunities to practice their teaching skills and receive feedback. Many o"
822,"f the new staff at all four sites we visited reported that centralized training provided them with a good foundation of knowledge and prepared them for additional training conducted by their regional office. Also, regional office managers from three offices we visited told us that centralized training affords new staff the opportunity to network with other new staff at different regional offices, which imbues a sense of how their positions fit in the organization. However, some staff reported that VBA’s imp"
823,"lementation of their centralized training was not always consistent. A number of staff at three regional offices reported that during their centralized training the instructors sometimes taught different ways of performing the same procedures or disagreed on claim procedures. Regional office officials told us that while centralized training instructors attempt to teach consistently through the use of standardized training materials, certain procedures can be done differently in different regional offices wh"
824,"ile adhering to VBA policy. For example, regional offices may differ on what to include in veteran notification letters. VBA officials also told us that centralized training conducted at the regional offices may not be as consistent as centralized training conducted at the Veterans Benefits Academy. According to these officials, unlike the regional offices, the Veterans Benefits Academy has on-site training experts to guide and ensure that instructors are teaching the curriculum consistently. New staff also"
825," gave mixed assessments about how training was conducted at their home office after they returned from centralized training. While some staff at all of the regional offices we visited told us that the additional training better prepared them to perform their jobs, with on-the- job training identified as a useful learning tool, others told us that the training could not always be completed in a timely manner due to regional office priorities. Some management and staff at two of the regional offices we visite"
826,"d reported that, because of workload pressures, some of their RVSRs had to interrupt their training to perform VSR duties. Also, a few new staff indicated that VBA’s TPSS was somewhat difficult to use. Although TPSS was developed to provide consistent technical training designed to improve the accuracy of claims ratings, a number of staff at all of the regional offices we visited reported that TPSS was too theoretical. For example, some staff said it provided too much information and no practical exercises "
827,"in applying the knowledge. Some staff also noted that certain material in TPSS was out-of-date with policy changes such as how to order medical examinations. Some staff at three of the regional offices also reported that TPSS was not always useful in training staff, in part, because TPSS does not use real cases. Three of the regional offices reported using TPSS for less than 1 percent of their training and VSRs at one regional office were unaware of what TPSS was. At all of the regional offices we visited, "
828,"staff we spoke with generally noted that training enables them to keep up-to-date on changes in laws and regulations as well as provides opportunities for obtaining refresher training on claims procedures they perform infrequently. However, regional office staff we spoke with differed in their assessment of the 80- hour requirement. Some regional office staff said the number of training hours required was appropriate, while others suggested that VBA adopt a graduated approach, with the most experienced staf"
829,"f being required to complete fewer hours than new staff. VBA officials told us that, in 2007, the Compensation and Pension Service reviewed their annual training requirements and determined the 80-hour annual training requirement was appropriate. However, the officials we spoke with could not identify the criteria that were used to make these determinations. Furthermore, VBA management does not systematically collect feedback from staff evaluating the usefulness of the training they must receive to meet thi"
830,"s requirement. Consequently, when determining the appropriateness of the 80-hour requirement, VBA has not taken into account the views of staff to gauge the effect the requirement has on them. Experienced staff had mixed views on training provided by the regional office. Staff at three regional offices said the core technical training topics set by the Compensation and Pension Service are really designed for newer staff and do not change much from year to year, and therefore experienced staff end up repeati"
831,"ng courses. Also, a number of staff at all of the regional offices we visited told us some regional office training was not relevant for those with more experience. Conversely, other regional office staff note that although training topics may be the same from year to year, a person can learn something new each time the course is covered. Some VBA officials and regional office managers also noted that some repetition of courses is good for several reasons. Staff may not see a particular issue very often in "
832,"their day-to-day work and can benefit from refreshers. Also, regional office managers at one office told us that the core technical training topics could be modified to reflect changes in policy so that courses are less repetitive for experienced staff. Many experienced staff also reported having difficulty meeting the 80-hour annual training requirement due to workload pressures. Many of the experienced staff we spoke with, at each of the regional offices we visited, told us that there is a constant strugg"
833,"le between office production goals and training goals. For example, office production goals can affect the availability of the regional office’s instructors. A number of staff from one regional office noted that instructors were unable to spend time teaching because of their heavy workloads and because instructors’ training preparation hours do not count toward the 80-hour training requirement. Staff at another regional office told us that, due to workload pressures, staff may rush through training and may "
834,"not get as much out of it as they should. The elements used to evaluate individual VSRs’ and RVSRs’ performance appear to be generally aligned with VBA’s organizational performance measures, something prior GAO work has identified as a well-recognized practice for effective performance management systems (see app. I). Aligning individual and organizational performance measures helps staff see the connection between their daily work activities and their organization’s goals and the importance of their roles "
835,"and responsibilities in helping to achieve these goals. VSRs must be evaluated on four critical elements: quality, productivity, workload management, and customer service. RVSRs are evaluated on quality, productivity, and customer service. In addition, VBA central office requires regional offices to evaluate their staff on at least one non-critical element. The central office has provided a non-critical element called cooperation and organizational support, and although regional offices are not required to "
836,"use this particular element, all four offices we visited did so (see table 2). For each element, there are three defined levels of performance: exceptional, fully successful, or less than fully successful. Table 2 refers only to the fully successful level of performance for each element. Three critical elements in particular—quality, workload management, and productivity—are aligned with VBA’s organizational performance measures (see table 3). According to VA’s strategic plan, one key organizational perform"
837,"ance measure for VBA is overall accuracy in rating disability claims. This organizational measure is aligned with the quality element for VSRs and RVSRs, which is assessed by measuring the accuracy of their claims-processing work. An individual performance element designed to motivate staff to process claims accurately should, in turn, help VBA meet its overall accuracy goal. Two other key performance measures for VBA are the average number of days that open disability claims have been pending and the avera"
838,"ge number of days it takes to process disability claims. VSRs are evaluated on their workload management, a measure of whether they complete designated claims- related tasks within specific deadlines. Individual staff performance in this element is linked to the agency’s ability to manage its claims workload and process claims within goal time frames. Finally, a performance measure that VBA uses to evaluate the claims-processing divisions within its regional offices—and that, according to VBA, relates to th"
839,"e organization’s overall mission—is production, or the number of compensation and pension claims processed by each office in a given time period. Individual VSRs and RVSRs are evaluated on their productivity, i.e., the number of claims-related tasks they complete per day. Higher productivity by individual staff should result in more claims being processed by each regional office and by VBA overall. Providing objective performance information to individuals helps show progress in achieving organizational goa"
840,"ls and allows individuals to manage their performance during the year by identifying performance gaps and improvement opportunities. Regional offices are supposed to use the critical and non-critical performance elements to evaluate and provide feedback to their staff. Supervisors are required to provide at least one progress review to their VSRs and RVSRs each year, indicating how their performance on each element compares to the defined standards for fully successful performance. In the offices we visited"
841,", supervisors typically provide some feedback to staff on a monthly basis. For example, VSRs in the Atlanta regional office receive a memo on their performance each month showing their production in terms of average weighted actions per day, their accuracy percentage based on a review of a sample of cases, and how their performance compared to the minimum requirements for production and accuracy. If staff members fall below the fully successful level in a critical element at any time during the year, a perf"
842,ormance improvement plan must be implemented to help the staff member improve. Performance elements related to collaboration or teamwork can help reinforce behaviors and actions that support crosscutting goals and provide a consistent message to all employees about how they are expected to achieve results. VSR and RVSR performance related to customer service is evaluated partly based on whether any valid complaints have been received about a staff member’s interaction with their colleagues. And performance 
843,"related to the cooperation and organizational support element is based on whether staff members’ interaction with their colleagues is professional and constructive. Competencies, which define the skills and supporting behaviors that individuals are expected to exhibit to carry out their work effectively, can provide a fuller assessment of an individual’s performance. In addition to elements that are evaluated in purely quantitative terms, VBA uses a cooperation and organizational support element for VSRs an"
844,"d RVSRs that requires supervisors to assess whether their staff are exhibiting a number of behaviors related to performing well as a claims processor. Actively involving employees and stakeholders in developing the performance management system and providing ongoing training on the system helps increase their understanding and ownership of the organizational goals and objectives. For example, VA worked with the union representing claims processors to develop an agreement about its basic policies regarding p"
845,"erformance management. Also, VBA indicated that it planned to pilot revisions to how productivity is measured for VSRs in a few regional offices, partly so VSRs would have a chance to provide feedback on the changes. Clear differentiation between staff performance levels is also an accepted practice for effective performance management systems. Systems that do not result in meaningful distinctions between different levels of performance fail to give (1) employees the constructive feedback they need to impro"
846,"ve, and (2) managers the information they need to reward top performers and address performance issues. GAO has previously reported that, in order to provide meaningful distinctions in performance for experienced staff, agencies should use performance rating scales with at least three levels, and scales with four or five levels are preferable because they allow for even greater differentiation between performance levels. If staff members are concentrated in just one or two of multiple performance levels, ho"
847,"wever, the system may not be making meaningful distinctions in performance. VA’s performance appraisal system has the potential to clearly differentiate between staff performance levels. Each fiscal year, regional offices give their staff a rating on each critical and non-critical performance element using a three-point scale—exceptional, fully successful, or less than fully successful. Based on a VA-wide formula, the combination of ratings across these elements is converted into one of VA’s five overall pe"
848,"rformance levels: outstanding, excellent, fully successful, minimally satisfactory, and unsatisfactory (see fig. 5). Regional offices may award financial bonuses to staff on the basis of their end-of-year performance category. Prior to fiscal year 2006, VA used two performance levels—successful and unacceptable—to characterize each staff member’s overall performance. To better differentiate between the overall performance levels of staff, VA abandoned this pass-fail system in that year, choosing instead to "
849,"use a five-level scale. However, there is evidence to suggest that the performance management system for VSRs and RVSRs may not clearly or accurately differentiate among staff’s performance. VBA central office officials and managers in two of the four regional offices we visited raised concerns with VA’s formula for translating ratings on individual performance elements into an overall performance rating. These officials said that under this formula it is more difficult for staff to be placed in certain ove"
850,"rall performance categories than others, even if staff’s performance truly does fall within one of those categories. Indeed, at least 90 percent of all claims processors in the regional offices we visited were placed in either the outstanding or the fully successful category in fiscal year 2007. (Fig. 6 shows the distribution of overall performance ratings for claims processors in each office.) Central and regional office managers noted that, in particular, it is difficult for staff to receive an overall ra"
851,"ting of excellent. Managers in one office said there are staff whose performance is better than fully successful but not quite outstanding, but under the formula it is difficult for these staff to be placed in the excellent category as the managers feel they should be. An excellent rating requires exceptional ratings in all the critical elements and a fully successful rating in at least one non-critical element. However, according to staff we interviewed, virtually all staff who are exceptional in the criti"
852,"cal elements are also exceptional in all non-critical element(s), so they appropriately end up in the outstanding category. On the other hand, the overall rating for staff who receive a fully successful rating on just one of the critical elements—even if they are rated exceptional in all the other elements—drops down to fully successful. Managers in one regional office commented that the system would produce more accurate overall performance ratings if staff were given an overall rating of excellent when th"
853,"ey had, for example, exceptional ratings on three of five overall elements and fully successful ratings on the other two. An official in VA’s Office of Human Resources Management acknowledged that there may be an issue with the agency’s formula. Although neither VBA nor VA central office officials have examined the distribution of VSRs and RVSRs across the five overall performance ratings, VA indicated it is considering changes to the system designed to allow for greater differentiation in performance ratin"
854,"gs. For example, one possible change would be to use a five-point scale for rating individual elements—probably mirroring the five overall performance rating categories of outstanding, excellent, fully successful, minimally satisfactory, and unsatisfactory— rather than the current three-point scale. Under the proposed change, a staff member who was generally performing at the excellent but not outstanding level could get excellent ratings in all the elements and receive an overall rating of excellent. This "
855,"change must still be negotiated with several stakeholder groups, according to the VA official we interviewed. In many ways, VBA has developed a training program for its new staff that is consistent with accepted training practices in the federal government. However, because VBA does not centrally evaluate or collect feedback on training provided by its regional offices, it lacks the information needed to determine if training provided at regional offices is useful and what improvements, if any, may be neede"
856,"d. Ultimately, this information would help VBA determine if 80 hours of training annually is the right amount, particularly for its experienced staff, and whether experienced staff members are receiving training that is relevant for their positions. Identifying the right amount of training is crucial for the agency as it tries to address its claims backlog. An overly burdensome training requirement needlessly may take staff away from claims processing, while too little training could contribute to processin"
857,"g inaccuracies. Also, without collecting feedback on regional office training, VBA may not be aware of issues with the implementation of its TPSS, the on-line training tool designed to ensure consistency across offices in technical training. Setting aside the issue of how many hours of training should be required, VBA does not hold its staff accountable for fulfilling their training requirement. As a result, VBA is missing an opportunity to clearly convey to staff the importance of managing their time to me"
858,"et training requirements as well as production and accuracy goals. With the implementation of its new learning management system, VBA should soon have the ability to track training completed by individual staff members, making it possible to hold them accountable for meeting the training requirement. As with its training program for VSRs and RVSRs, the VA is not examining the performance management system for claims processors as closely as it should. VBA is generally using the right elements to evaluate it"
859,"s claims processors’ performance, and the performance appraisals have the potential to give managers information they can use to recognize and reward higher levels of performance. However, evidence suggests the formula used to place VSRs and RVSRs into overall performance categories may not clearly and accurately differentiate among staff’s performance levels. Absent additional examination of the distribution of claims processors among overall performance categories, VA lacks a clear picture of whether its "
860,"system is working as intended and whether any adjustments are needed. The Secretary of Veterans Affairs should direct VBA to: Collect and review feedback from staff on the training conducted at the if the 80-hour annual training requirement is appropriate for all VSRs and RVSRs; the extent to which regional offices provide training that is relevant to VSRs’ and RVSRs’ work, given varying levels of staff experience; and whether regional offices find the TPSS a useful learning tool and, if not, what adjustmen"
861,"ts are needed to make it more useful; and Use information from its new learning management system to hold individual VSRs and RVSRs accountable for completing whatever annual training requirement it determines is appropriate. The Secretary of Veterans Affairs should also examine the distribution of claims processing staff across overall performance categories to determine if its performance appraisal system clearly differentiates between overall performance levels, and if necessary adjust its system to ensu"
862,"re that it makes clear distinctions. We provided a draft of this report to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for review and comment. In VA’s written comments (see app. IV), the agency agreed with our conclusions and concurred with our recommendations. For example, VBA plans to consult with regional office staff to evaluate its annual 80-hour training requirement and will examine if staff performance ratings clearly differentiate between overall performance levels. VA also provided technical comments that we"
863,"re incorporated as appropriate. We are sending copies of this report to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, relevant congressional committees, and others who are interested. We will also provide copies to others on request. The report is also available at no charge on GAO’s Web site at http://www.gao.gov. Please contact me on (202) 512-7215 if you or your staff have any questions about this report. Contact points for the Offices of Congressional Relations and Public Affairs may be found on the last page of t"
864,"his report. Key contributors are listed in appendix V. We were asked to determine: (1) What training is provided to new and experienced claims processors and how uniform is this training? (2) To what extent has the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) developed a strategic approach to planning training for claims processors and how well is their training designed, implemented, and evaluated? And (3) To what extent is the performance management system for claims processors consistent with generally accepte"
865,"d performance management practices in the public sector? To answer these questions, we reviewed documents and data from the central office of the Department of Veterans Affairs’ Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) and interviewed VBA central office officials. We conducted site visits to and collected data from four VBA regional offices, and visited the Veterans Benefits Academy. We also interviewed officials from the American Federation of Government Employees, the labor union that represents Veterans Se"
866,"rvice Representatives (VSR) and Rating Veterans Service Representatives (RVSR). We compared VBA’s training and performance management systems to accepted human capital principles and criteria compiled by GAO. We conducted this performance audit from September 2007 through May 2008 in accordance with generally accepted government auditing standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain sufficient, appropriate evidence to provide a reasonable basis for our findings and conclusi"
867,"ons based on our audit objectives. We believe that the evidence obtained provides a reasonable basis for our findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives. We conducted site visits to 4 of VBA’s 57 regional offices—Atlanta; Baltimore; Milwaukee; and Portland, Oregon. We judgmentally selected these offices to achieve some diversity in geographic location, number of staff, and claims processing accuracy rates, and what we report about these sites may not necessarily be representative of any other reg"
868,"ional offices or all regional offices (see fig. 7). During our site visits, we interviewed regional office managers, supervisors of VSRs and RVSRs, VSRs, and RVSRs about the training and performance management practices in their offices. The VSRs and RVSRs we interviewed at the four regional offices had varying levels of experience at VBA. Regional office managers selected the staff we interviewed. We also observed a demonstration of VBA’s on-line learning tool, the Training and Performance Support System ("
869,"TPSS), and collected data from the regional offices on, for example, the training they provided during fiscal year 2007. In conjunction with our visit to the Baltimore regional office, we also visited VBA’s Veterans Benefits Academy, where we observed classes for VSRs and RVSRs and interviewed the director of the Academy. To determine whether VBA’s training program is consistent with accepted training practices in the public sector, we relied partly on a guide developed by GAO that lays out principles that "
870,"federal agencies should follow to ensure their training is effective. This guide was developed in collaboration with government officials and experts in the private sector, academia, and nonprofit organizations; and in conjunction with a review of laws, regulations and literature on training and development issues, including previous GAO reports. The guide lays out the four broad components of the training and development process (see fig. 8). The guide also provides key questions for federal agencies to co"
871,"nsider in assessing their performance in each component. (See table 4 for a sample of these questions.) In addition, GAO training experts reviewed VBA materials, including training curricula, lesson plans, and course evaluation forms, to determine if these materials are consistent with accepted training practices. In assessing the performance management system for VSRs and RVSRs, we relied primarily on a set of accepted practices of effective public sector performance management systems that has been compil"
872,"ed by GAO. To identify these accepted practices, GAO reviewed its prior reports on performance management that drew on the experiences of public sector organizations both in the United States and abroad. For the purpose of this review, we focused on the six accepted practices most relevant for VBA’s claims-processing workforce (see table 5). Additional Issue Specific Lesson Plans are under development. (Lesson plans can be taken from the Centralized Training Curriculum found on the C&P Intranet Training Sit"
873,e. If used as provided they do not require C&P review and approval. These plans can and often should be modified to focus in on a particular narrow issue of training need. Modified lesson plans are to be submitted to C&P Service for review and approval at least 30 days prior to delivery of training. Any Challenge-oriented original lesson plan developed by Station personnel is to be submitted to C&P Service for review and approval at least 30 days prior to delivery of training.) C&P Service Broadcasts that m
874,ay be provided during the course of the FY may be substituted in place of any training scheduled on an hour by hour basis. 60 Hours of the required 80 Hours will be selected from the suggested topics above. The remaining 20 hours will be selected at the Stations discretion based upon their own individual quality review. (Training provided from the above topics can be focused on a particular aspect of the topic; i.e. Cold Injuries and Rating Hypertension from Cardiovascular issues could be separate classes) 
875,"Participation in Agency Advancement Programs (i.e., LEAD, LVA) does not substitute for Required training requirements. Additional Issue Specific Lesson Plans are under development. (Lesson plans can be taken from the Centralized Training Curriculum found on the C&P Intranet Training Site. If used as provided they do not require C&P review and approval. These plans can and often should be modified to focus in on a particular narrow issue of training need. Modified lesson plans are to be submitted to C&P Serv"
876,ice for review and approval at least 30 days prior to delivery of training. Any Challenge-oriented original lesson plan developed by Station personnel is to be submitted to C&P Service for review and approval at least 30 days prior to delivery of training.) C&P Service Broadcasts that may be provided during the course of the FY may be substituted in place of any training scheduled on an hour by hour basis. Drill Pay Waivers Pension Awards Processing & BDN Hospital Reductions Burial Benefits Death Pension Ac
877,crued Benefits Accrued Awards & the BDN Apportionments Special Monthly Pension Helpless Child Incompetency/Fiduciary Arrangements Claims Processing Auto Allowance and Adaptive Equipment Special Adapted Housing Special Home Adaptation Grants Incarcerated Veterans Processing Write Outs FOIA/Privacy Act Telephone & Interview Techniques Telephone Development IRIS Introduction to VACOLS Education Benefits Insurance Benefits National Cemetery VR&E Benefits Loan Guaranty Benefits General Benefits – FAQs Suicidal C
878,aller Guidance Non-Receipt of BDN Payments Mail Handling Income & Net Worth Determinations Bootcamp test and review of VSR Readiness Guide (2 HRS Required) Reference Material Training and Navigation (1 HR Required) Appeals and Ancillary Benefits Ready to Rate Development Customer Service FNOD Info and PMC Process Intro to Appeals Process DRO Selection Letter Income Adjustment Materials Income Adjustments 60 Hours of the required 80 Hours will be selected from the suggested topics above. The remaining 20 hou
879,"rs will be selected at the Stations discretion based upon their own individual quality review. Overview of VA Mission Reference Materials: Manual Training & WARMS C&P Website Claims Folder Maintenance Records Management POA/Service Organizations Compensation Original Compensation Claims Non-Original Compensation Claims VA Form 21-526, App. For Compensation or Pension Establishing Veteran Status Claims Recognition Duty to Assist Selecting the Correct Worksheet for VA Exams Issue Specific Claim Development As"
880,bestos Claim Development Herbicide Claim Development POW Claim Development Radiation Claim Development PTSD Claim Development Undiagnosed Illness Claim Development Dependency Contested Claims Deemed Valid and Common-law Marriage Continuous Cohabitation Pension Intro. To Disability Pension Overview of SHARE (SSA) Administrative Decision Process Character of Discharge Line of Duty – Willful Misconduct Claims Development Workload Management Utilizing WIPP DEA Training (req. added 4/06) Intro to Ratings Paragra
881,ph 29 & 30 Ratings Ratings & the BDN BDN 301 Interface Video PCGL Award Letters PCGL Dependents & the BDN Compensation Offsets Drill Pay Waivers Star Reporter Pension Awards Processing & the BDN Hospital Reductions Burial Benefits Disallowance Processing DIC Benefits Death Pension Accrued Benefits Accrued Awards & the BDN Apportionment Special Monthly Pension Helpless Child Incompetency/Fiduciary Arrangements Claims Processing Automobile Allowance and Adaptive Equipment Specially Adapted Housing and Special
882, Home Adaptation Grants Incarceration Processing Computer Write Outs DEA Training (req. added 4/06) Public Contact Team Training: FOIA/Privacy Act Communication Skills Telephone Development Inquiry Routing and Information System (IRIS) Intro to VACOLS Other VBA Business Lines Customer Service Insurance Education (2 hrs) Intro to Appeals Process VACOLS http://cptraining.vba.va.gov/ C&P_Training/vsr/VSR_ Curriculum.htm#att http://cptraining.vba.va.gov/ C&P_Training/vsr/VSR_ Curriculum.htm#iam. Each training p
883,"lan we reviewed contained the same informational categories, some of which were what courses were offered by the regional office, whether or not the course was conducted, and how many employees completed the training. Although the fiscal year 2007 training plans we reviewed include data on whether and when the course was actually completed, the initial training plans submitted at the beginning of the fiscal year of course do not have this information. The lists provided below include the first 25 courses li"
884,"sted on each plan alphabetically, a small sample of the courses that the regional offices reported they completed for the fiscal year. Daniel Bertoni (202) 512-7215 bertonid@gao.gov. In addition to the contact named above, Clarita Mrena, Assistant Director; Lorin Obler, Analyst-in-Charge; Carolyn S. Blocker; and David Forgosh made major contributions to this report; Margaret Braley, Peter Del Toro, Chris Dionis, Janice Latimer, and Carol Willett provided guidance; Walter Vance assisted with study design; Ch"
885,"arles Willson helped draft the report; and Roger Thomas provided legal advice. Veterans’ Benefits: Improved Management Would Enhance VA’s Pension Program. GAO-08-112. Washington, D.C.: February 14, 2008. Veterans’ Disability Benefits: Claims Processing Challenges Persist, while VA Continues to Take Steps to Address Them. GAO-08-473T. Washington, D.C.: February 14, 2008. Disabled Veterans’ Employment: Additional Planning, Monitoring, and Data Collection Efforts Would Improve Assistance. GAO-07-1020. Washingt"
886,"on, D.C.: September 12, 2007. Veterans’ Benefits: Improvements Needed in the Reporting and Use of Data on the Accuracy of Disability Claims Decisions. GAO-03-1045. Washington, D.C.: September 30, 2003. Human Capital: A Guide for Assessing Strategic Training and Development Efforts in the Federal Government. GAO-03-893G. Washington, D.C.: July 2003. Results-Oriented Cultures: Creating a Clear Linkage between Individual Performance and Organizational Success. GAO-03-488. Washington D.C.: March 14, 2003. Major"
887," Management Challenges and Program Risks: Department of Veterans Affairs. GAO-03-110. Washington, D.C.: January 1, 2003. Veterans’ Benefits: Claims Processing Timeliness Performance Measures Could Be Improved. GAO-03-282. Washington, D.C.: December 19, 2002. Veterans’ Benefits: Quality Assurance for Disability Claims and Appeals Processing Can Be Further Improved. GAO-02-806. Washington, D.C.: August 16, 2002. Veterans’ Benefits: Training for Claims Processors Needs Evaluation. GAO-01-601. Washington, D.C.:"
888," May 31, 2001. Veterans Benefits Claims: Further Improvements Needed in Claims- Processing Accuracy. GAO/HEHS-99-35. Washington, D.C.: March 1, 1999."
889,"Under TRICARE, beneficiaries may obtain health care through either the direct care system of military treatment facilities or the purchased care system of civilian providers and hospitals, including SCHs. SCHs were exempted from TRICARE’s reimbursement rules for hospitals until revised rules were implemented in January 2014. SCHs serve communities that rely on them for inpatient care, and they include hospitals and regional medical centers ranging in size from 9 to 598 beds. The intent of the SCH designatio"
890,"n is to maintain access to needed health services for Medicare beneficiaries by providing financial assistance to hospitals that are geographically isolated. A hospital may generally qualify for SCH status by showing that because of factors such as isolated location, weather conditions, travel conditions, or absence of other like hospitals, it is the sole source of inpatient hospital services reasonably available in a geographic area. In 2014, 459 hospitals were designated as SCHs under the Medicare program"
891,". A hospital that qualifies as an SCH under the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services’s (CMS) Medicare regulations is also considered an SCH under TRICARE. Specifically, a hospital paid under the Medicare Acute Care Hospital IPPS is eligible for classification as an SCH if it meets one of the following criteria established by CMS: The hospital is at least 35 miles from other like hospitals; The hospital is rural, between 25 and 35 miles from other like hospitals, and meets one of the following criteria: "
892,"No more than 25 percent of hospital inpatients or no more than 25 percent of the Medicare inpatients in the hospital’s service area are admitted to other like hospitals within a 35-mile radius of the hospital or, if larger, within its service area; The hospital has fewer than 50 beds and would meet the 25 percent criterion except that some beneficiaries or residents were forced to seek specialized care outside of the service area due to the unavailability of necessary specialty services at the hospital; or "
893,"Because of local topography or periods of prolonged severe weather conditions, the other like hospitals are inaccessible for at least 30 days in each 2 out of 3 years. The hospital is rural and located between 15 and 25 miles from other like hospitals, but because of local topography or periods of prolonged severe weather conditions, the other like hospitals are inaccessible for at least 30 days in each of 2 out of 3 years; or The hospital is rural and because of distance, posted speed limits, and predictab"
894,"le weather conditions, the travel time between the hospital and the nearest like hospital is at least 45 minutes. Under the TRICARE program, beneficiaries can obtain care either from providers at military treatment facilities or from civilian providers. DHA contracts with three regional managed care support contractors to develop networks of civilian providers in their respective regions, including SCHs, to serve TRICARE beneficiaries in geographic areas called Prime Service Areas. Prime Service Areas are g"
895,"eographically defined by a set of 5-digit zip codes, usually within an approximate 40-mile radius of a military treatment facility. These civilian provider networks are required to meet specific access standards for certain types of TRICARE beneficiaries, such as travel times or wait times for appointments. However, these access standards do not apply to inpatient care. Since 1987, DHA has reimbursed hospitals for claims using the agency’s DRG-based payment system, which was modeled after Medicare’s system."
896," Under this system, claims are priced using an annual standard amount and a weighted value for each DRG. For example, in fiscal year 2014, the TRICARE annual standard amount was approximately $5,500.00. Payment weights are assigned to each DRG based on the average resources used to treat patients. For example, in fiscal year 2014, a lung transplant had a weight of 8.6099, which would be multiplied by the annual standard payment amount ($5,500.00) for a reimbursement of $47,354.45. TRICARE’s DRG-based paymen"
897,"t system differs from Medicare’s DRG-based payment system in that each program has different annual standard amounts and different DRG weights due to differences in the characteristics of their beneficiary populations. For example, Medicare’s population, which is generally older and less healthy than TRICARE’s population, may require more resources and may require longer inpatient lengths of stay. Also, some services, notably obstetric and pediatric services, are nearly absent from Medicare, but are a much "
898,"larger component of TRICARE’s services. SCHs were exempted from DHA’s DRG-based payment system because they had special payment provisions under Medicare that allowed for payments based on historical costs as well as certain types of adjustments, such as additional payments for significant volume decreases defined as a more than 5 percent decrease in total inpatient discharges as compared to the immediately preceding cost reporting period. Instead, DHA generally reimbursed SCHs based on their billed charges"
899," for inpatient care provided to TRICARE beneficiaries. However, distinctions were made among providers based on network status. Specifically, nonnetwork SCHs were reimbursed for their billed charges, and network hospitals were reimbursed based on their billed charges less any discounts that they negotiated with the managed care support contractors. Under its revised reimbursement rules for SCHs, DHA’s methodology for TRICARE approximates the rules for Medicare for these hospitals. Specifically, both program"
900,"s reimburse SCHs using the greater of either a cost-based amount or the allowed amount under a DRG-based payment system. However, each program takes a different approach in implementing these methods. Medicare reimburses each SCH based on which of the following methods yields the greatest aggregate payment for that hospital: (1) the updated hospital-specific rate based on cost per discharge from fiscal year 1982, (2) the updated hospital-specific rate based on cost per discharge from fiscal year 1987, (3) t"
901,"he updated hospital-specific rate based on cost per discharge from fiscal year 1996, (4) the updated hospital-specific rate based on cost per discharge from fiscal year 2006, or (5) the IPPS hospital-specific DRG rate payment. Medicare’s reimbursement rules also include payment adjustments that SCHs may receive under special programs or circumstances, such as adjustments to SCHs that experience significant volume decreases. Beginning January 1, 2014, TRICARE began reimbursing SCHs based upon the greater of "
902,"(1) the SCH’s Medicare cost-to-charge ratio, or (2) TRICARE’s DRG-based payment system. The Medicare cost-to-charge ratio that TRICARE uses is calculated for each hospital by CMS and is distinct from the historical hospital-specific rates based on the cost per discharge that Medicare uses to reimburse SCHs. Under TRICARE’s revised rules for SCHs, the cost-to-charge ratio will be multiplied by each hospital’s billed charges to determine its reimbursement amount. Also, at the end of each year, DHA calculates "
903,"the aggregate amount that each SCH would have been reimbursed under TRICARE’s DRG-based payment system, which it uses to reimburse other hospitals that provide inpatient care to TRICARE beneficiaries. If an SCH’s aggregate reimbursement would have been more under this system than it would have using the Medicare cost-to-charge ratio, DHA pays the SCH the difference. TRICARE’s revised reimbursement rules also include payment adjustments that SCHs may receive under special circumstances, although the specific"
904," TRICARE adjustments differ from those available under Medicare. For example, effective with the revised reimbursement rules, SCHs may qualify for a General Temporary Military Contingency Payment Adjustment if they meet certain criteria, including serving a disproportionate share of active duty servicemembers and their dependents—10 percent or more of the SCH’s total admissions. At the time of our review, DHA officials did not have an estimate of the number of SCHs that would qualify for this adjustment. Un"
905,"der TRICARE’s revised rules, some SCHs—which were previously reimbursed at up to 100 percent of their billed charges—will eventually be reimbursed at 30 to 50 percent of their billed charges. In order to minimize sudden significant reimbursement reductions on SCHs, DHA’s revised rules include a transition period to the new reimbursement levels for most SCHs. Eligible SCHs are reimbursed using an individually derived base-year ratio that is reduced annually until it matches the SCH’s Medicare cost-to-charge "
906,"ratio that CMS has calculated for each hospital. For each hospital designated as an SCH during fiscal year 2012, DHA calculated a base-year ratio of their allowed-to-billed charges using fiscal year 2012 TRICARE claims data. Based on these calculations, each SCH fell into one of two categories: (1) SCHs with base-year ratios higher than their Medicare cost-to-charge ratios, or (2) SCHs with base- year ratios lower than, or equal to, their Medicare cost-to-charge ratios. Most SCHs fell into the first categor"
907,"y with base-year ratios higher than their Medicare cost-to-charge ratios (339 or 74 percent), which qualified them for a transition period. For these SCHs, their base-year ratios are reduced annually based on their network participation status, and their modified ratios are multiplied by their billed charges beginning January 1, 2014. Specifically, a nonnetwork SCH has no more than a 15 percentage point reduction each year, while a network SCH has no more than a 10 percentage point reduction as its reimburs"
908,"ement level declines to its respective Medicare cost-to-charge ratio. The length of the transition period differs for each SCH and is determined by the difference between its base-year ratio and its Medicare cost-to-charge ratio, and its network status. Figure 1 shows an example of the transition for a network SCH with a 95 percent base-year ratio that is transitioning to a Medicare cost- to-charge ratio of 40 percent. As a network provider, the SCH’s base-year ratio would be reduced by 10 percentage points"
909," to 85 percent during the first year of implementation of the revised rules and would continue to be reduced until its reimbursement ratio matches the SCH’s Medicare ratio 5 years later. Twenty-four percent (111 of 459) of the hospitals that were designated as SCHs during fiscal year 2012 with base-year ratios less than or equal to their Medicare cost-to-charge ratios did not qualify for a transition period because either their reimbursement increased to their Medicare cost-to- charge ratio, or they continu"
910,"ed to be reimbursed at their Medicare cost-to- charge ratio. Similarly, about 2 percent (9 of 459) of the hospitals that were not designated as SCH in fiscal year 2012 also did not qualify for a transition period. Instead, these SCHs are now reimbursed using their Medicare cost-to-charge ratio in accordance with TRICARE’s revised reimbursement rules. Once an SCH reaches its Medicare cost-to-charge ratio, TRICARE reimburses labor, delivery, and nursery care services at 130 percent of this ratio. This rule is"
911," based on DHA’s assessment that Medicare’s ratio does not accurately reflect the costs for these services. According to TRICARE’s fiscal year 2013 claims data, 120 SCHs (approximately 30 percent of all SCHs) were already reimbursed using rates that were at or below their Medicare cost-to-charge ratios. Because most SCHs have just completed the first year of a multi-year transition, it is too early to determine the full effect of the revised reimbursement rules on SCHs, including any effect on TRICARE benefi"
912,"ciaries’ ability to obtain care at these hospitals. Nonetheless, early indications show that TRICARE beneficiaries have not experienced problems accessing inpatient care at these facilities. For fiscal year 2013, we found that overall TRICARE reimbursements for SCHs averaged less than 1 percent of their net patient revenue, with TRICARE beneficiaries making up just over 1 percent of their total discharges. We also found that the majority of SCHs—58 percent (265 of 459)—had fewer than 20 TRICARE admissions d"
913,"uring this time while 10 percent (44 of 459) had 100 or more TRICARE admissions. As a result, the impact of TRICARE’s revised reimbursement rules may likely be small for most SCHs. Figure 2 illustrates a breakdown of the 459 SCHs by their fiscal year 2013 TRICARE admissions. DHA officials reported that they do not think access to inpatient care at SCHs will be an issue because hospitals that participate in the Medicare program are required to participate in the TRICARE program and serve its beneficiaries. O"
914,"fficials from the 10 SCHs we identified as having the highest number of TRICARE admissions, the highest reimbursement amounts, or both, told us that they provide care to all patients, including TRICARE beneficiaries—although some of them were not familiar with this requirement. TRICARE reimbursement for these SCHs ranged from about 2 to 12 percent of their net patient revenue, and TRICARE beneficiaries accounted for about 1 to 27 percent of their total discharges. See table 1 for TRICARE percentages of net "
915,"patient revenue and total discharges for each of these SCHs. However, TRICARE beneficiaries’ access to care at SCHs could be affected if these hospitals reduced or eliminated their inpatient services. The SCH officials we spoke with told us that they had not reduced the inpatient services available at their hospitals as a result of TRICARE’s revised reimbursement rules. However, officials at two SCHs did express concerns about future difficulties maintaining their current level of operations as they face fu"
916,"rther reductions in reimbursements not only from TRICARE, but also from other sources, such as Medicare and Medicaid. These officials said that they are concerned about their facilities’ long-term survival. Given the current environment of decreasing reimbursements, some SCHs we interviewed reported taking proactive steps, such as eliminating equipment maintenance contracts, to help offset the reimbursement reductions. Officials from one facility we interviewed told us that they are considering an option to"
917, partner with another SCH as a way to increase efficiency. TRICARE beneficiaries’ demand for inpatient care at SCHs also may be affected by the availability of inpatient care from their respective military installation. We found that 24 of the 44 SCHs we identified as having 100 or more TRICARE admissions in fiscal year 2013—about half—were within 40 miles of a military installation that only had an outpatient clinic. (See appendix II for a list of the 44 SCHs and their proximity to military hospitals and c
918,"linics). As a result, servicemembers and their dependents in those locations may be more reliant on a nearby SCH for their inpatient care. We found that TRICARE inpatient admissions for these 24 facilities ranged from 101 to 2,178 in fiscal year 2013, and 6 of them were among the 10 SCHs that we interviewed because they had the highest number of TRICARE admissions, the highest reimbursement amounts, or both. Officials from these 6 SCHs told us that nearby TRICARE beneficiaries tend to rely on their faciliti"
919,"es for certain types of inpatient services, such as labor and delivery. See figure 3 for additional information about SCHs with 100 or more TRICARE admissions and their proximity to military hospitals and clinics. We also found that 12 of the 44 SCHs with 100 or more admissions were located fewer than 40 miles from a military hospital. TRICARE admissions for these facilities ranged from 117 to 2,364 in fiscal year 2013. Three of these SCHs—which are located near Naval hospitals in North Carolina and South C"
920,"arolina—were among the 10 SCHs with the highest number of TRICARE admissions or the highest numbers of both admissions and reimbursement that we interviewed. An official with Naval Hospital Camp Lejeune (North Carolina) told us the hospital relies on local SCHs because it is either unable to meet their beneficiaries’ demand for certain services, such as obstetric care, or because the SCHs offer services not available at the Naval hospital, such as some cardiac care. Naval Hospital Beaufort (South Carolina) "
921,"provides limited inpatient services, and according to an official there, most of that hospital’s beneficiaries obtain inpatient care at the local SCH, including intensive care, all pediatric care, maternity and newborn care, and certain types of specialty care not provided at the Naval hospital (neurology, cardiology, and gastroenterology). We also interviewed officials at two additional military hospitals—Naval Hospital Lemoore (California) and Naval Hospital Oak Harbor (Washington)—that had eliminated all"
922," or most of their inpatient care and were within 40 miles of an SCH. These officials told us that they rely more on other hospitals that are closer to their installations than the SCHs. For example, an official with Naval Hospital Lemoore told us that Lemoore currently has a resource sharing agreement with another hospital, which is closer to them than the nearby SCH. This agreement allows military providers with privileges to deliver babies for TRICARE beneficiaries at that facility. Officials from Naval H"
923,ospital Oak Harbor told us that their hospital tends to utilize three smaller facilities closer to it than the SCH depending on the type of service needed. DHA and managed care support contractor officials told us that they have not heard of concerns or issues with beneficiary access at SCHs resulting from the revised reimbursement rules. DHA officials reported that they do not think access to inpatient care at SCHs will be an issue because hospitals that participate in the Medicare program are required to 
924,"participate in the TRICARE program and serve its beneficiaries. DHA officials told us they track access issues pertaining to inpatient care at SCHs through concerns or complaints communicated to them through the TRICARE Regional Offices or directly from beneficiaries. As of February 2015, these officials told us they have not received any such complaints. They noted that they are looking at ways to measure changes in access to care at these facilities, possibly by comparing the number of discharges from one"
925," year to the next. Although their plans are under development, officials stated that they will likely focus on the 44 SCHs that had 100 or more TRICARE admissions. Officials from DHA’s TRICARE Regional Offices and the managed care support contractors also told us that they have not received complaints or heard of issues from beneficiaries about their ability to access inpatient care at SCHs. In addition, officials from national health care associations and military beneficiary coalition groups that we spoke"
926," with also reported that they have not heard any concerns about access to care at SCHs resulting from TRICARE’s revised reimbursement rules. We provided a draft of this report to DOD for comment. DOD responded that it agreed with the report’s findings, and its comments are reprinted in appendix III. DOD also provided technical comments, which we incorporated as appropriate. We are sending copies of this report to the Secretary of Defense and appropriate congressional committees. In addition, the report will"
927," be available at no charge on the GAO website at http://www.gao.gov. If you or your staff have any questions about this report, please contact me at (202) 512-7114 or draperd@gao.gov. Contact points for our Offices of Congressional Relations and Public Affairs may be found on the last page of this report. Major contributors to this report are listed in appendix IV. We obtained TRICARE claims data on the number of admissions and reimbursement amounts for each sole community hospital (SCH) for fiscal year 201"
928,"3. We used these data to select the eight SCHs with the highest number of TRICARE admissions and the eight SCHs with the highest reimbursement amounts. Due to overlap, the number of unique SCHs we selected totaled 10. We interviewed officials at those hospitals about the change in TRICARE reimbursement rules and any resulting effect on access to care. Sole community hospital (SCH) 8 SCHs that were 40 miles or more from a military outpatient clinic or hospital Fiscal Year (FY) 2013 TRICARE admissions 40 mile"
929,"s from a military outpatient clinic(s) military hospital(s) Sole community hospital (SCH) 12 SCHs that were less than 40 miles from a military hospital or a hospital and an outpatient clinic Fiscal Year (FY) 2013 TRICARE admissions outpatient clinic(s) military hospital(s) Debra A. Draper, Director, (202) 512-7114 or draperd@gao.gov. In addition to the contact name above, Bonnie Anderson, Assistant Director; Jennie Apter; Jackie Hamilton; Natalie Herzog; Giselle Hicks; Sylvia Diaz Jones; and Eric Wedum made"
930, key contributions to this report.
931,"Although VA has been authorized to collect third-party health insurance payments since 1986, it was not allowed to use these funds to supplement its medical care appropriations until enactment of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997. Part of VA’s 1997 strategic plan was to increase health insurance payments and other collections to help fund an increased health care workload. The potential for increased workload occurred in part because the Veterans’ Health Care Eligibility Reform Act of 1996 authorized VA to pr"
932,"ovide certain medical care services not previously available to higher-income veterans or those without service-connected disabilities. VA expected that the majority of the costs of their care would be covered by collections from third-party payments, copayments, and deductibles. These veterans increased from about 4 percent of all veterans treated in fiscal year 1996 to about a quarter of VA’s total patient workload in fiscal year 2002. VA can bill insurers for treatment of conditions that are not a result"
933," of injuries or illnesses incurred or aggravated during military service. However, VA cannot bill them for health care conditions that result from military service, nor is it generally authorized to collect from Medicare or Medicaid, or from health maintenance organizations when VA is not a participating provider. To collect from health insurers, VA uses five related processes to manage the information needed to bill and collect. The patient intake process involves gathering insurance information and verify"
934,"ing that information with the insurer. The medical documentation process involves properly documenting the health care provided to patients by physicians and other health care providers. The coding process involves assigning correct codes for the diagnoses and medical procedures based on the documentation. Next, the billing process creates and sends bills to insurers based on the insurance and coding information. Finally, the accounts receivable process includes processing payments from insurers and followi"
935,"ng up with insurers on outstanding or denied bills. In September 1999, VA adopted a fee schedule, called “reasonable charges.” Reasonable charges are itemized fees based on diagnoses and procedures. This schedule allows VA to more accurately bill for the care provided. However, by making these changes, VA created additional bill- processing demands—particularly in the areas of documenting care, coding that care, and processing bills per episode of care. First, VA must accurately assign medical diagnoses and"
936," procedure codes to set appropriate charges, a task that requires coders to search through medical documentation and various databases to identify all billable care. Second, VA must be prepared to provide an insurer supporting medical documentation for the itemized charges. Third, in contrast to a single bill for all the services provided during an episode of care under the previous fee schedule, under reasonable charges VA must prepare a separate bill for each provider involved in the care and an additiona"
937,"l bill if a hospital facility charge applies. For fiscal year 2002, VA collected $687 million in insurance payments, up 32 percent compared to the $521 million collected during fiscal year 2001. Collections through the first half of fiscal year 2003 total $386 million in third-party payments. The increased collections in fiscal year 2002 reflected that VA processed a higher volume of bills than it did in the prior fiscal year. VA processed and received payments for over 50 percent more bills in fiscal year "
938,"2002 than in fiscal year 2001. VA’s collections grew at a lower percentage rate than the number of paid bills because the average payment per paid bill dropped 18 percent compared to the prior fiscal year. Average payments dropped primarily because a rising proportion of VA’s paid bills were for outpatient care rather than inpatient care. Since the charges for outpatient care were much lower on average, the payment amounts were typically lower as well. Although VA anticipated that the shift to reasonable ch"
939,"arges in 1999 would yield higher collections, collections had dropped in fiscal year 2000. VA attributed that drop to its being unprepared to bill under reasonable charges, particularly because of its lack of proficiency in developing medical documentation and coding to appropriately support a bill. As a result, VA reported that many VA medical centers developed billing backlogs after initially suspending billing for some care. As shown in figure 1, VA’s third-party collections increased in fiscal year 2001"
940,"—reversing fiscal year 2000’s drop in collections—and increased again in fiscal year 2002. After initially being unprepared in fiscal year 2000 to bill reasonable charges, VA began improving its implementation of the processes necessary to bill and increase its collections. By the end of fiscal year 2001, VA had submitted 37 percent more bills to insurers than in fiscal year 2000. VA submitted even more in fiscal year 2002, as over 8 million bills—a 54 percent increase over the number in fiscal year 2001—we"
941,"re submitted to insurers. Managers we spoke with in three networks—Network 2 (Albany), Network 9 (Nashville), and Network 22 (Long Beach)—mainly attributed the increased billings to reductions in the billing backlogs. Networks 2 (Albany) and 9 (Nashville) reduced backlogs, in part by hiring more staff, contracting for staff, or using overtime to process bills and accounts receivable. Network 2 (Albany), for instance, managed an increased billing volume through mandatory overtime. Managers we interviewed in "
942,"all three networks noted better medical documentation provided by physicians to support billing. In Network 22 (Long Beach) and Network 9 (Nashville), revenue managers reported that coders were getting better at identifying all professional services that can be billed under reasonable charges. In addition, the revenue manager in Network 2 (Albany) said that billers’ productivity had risen from 700 to 2,500 bills per month over a 3-year period, as a result of gradually increasing the network’s productivity s"
943,"tandards and streamlining their jobs to focus solely on billing. VA officials cited other reasons for the increased number of bills submitted to insurers. An increased number of patients with billable insurance was one reason for the increased billing. In addition, a May 2001 change in the reasonable-charges fee schedule for medical evaluations allowed separate bills for facility charges and professional service charges, a change that contributed to the higher volume of bills in fiscal year 2002. Studies ha"
944,"ve suggested that operational problems—missed billing opportunities, billing backlogs, and inadequate pursuit of accounts receivable—limited VA’s collections in the years following the implementation of reasonable charges. For example, a study completed last year estimated that 23.8 percent of VA patients in fiscal year 2001 had billable care, but VA actually billed for the care of only 18.3 percent of patients. This finding suggests that VA could have billed for 30 percent more patients than it actually bi"
945,"lled. Further, after examining activities in fiscal years 2000 and 2001, a VA Inspector General report estimated that VA could have collected over $500 million more than it did. About 73 percent of this uncollected amount was attributed to a backlog of unbilled medical care; most of the rest was attributed to insufficient pursuit of delinquent bills. Another study, examining only professional-service charges in a single network, estimated that $4.1 million out of $4.7 million of potential collections was un"
946,"billed for fiscal year 2001. Of that unbilled amount, 63 percent was estimated to be unbillable primarily because of insufficient documentation. In addition, the study found that coders often missed services that should have been coded for billing. According to a CBO official, VA could increase collections by working on operational problems. These problems included unpaid accounts receivable and missed billing opportunities due to insufficient identification of insured patients, inadequate documentation to "
947,"support billing, and coding problems that result in unidentified care. From April through June 2002, three network revenue managers told us about backlogs and processing issues that persisted into fiscal year 2002. For example, although Network 9 (Nashville) had above average increases in collections for both inpatient and outpatient care, it still had coding backlogs in four of six medical centers. According to Network 9’s (Nashville) revenue manager, eliminating the backlogs for outpatient care would incr"
948,"ease collections by an estimated $4 million, or 9 percent, for fiscal year 2002. Additional increases might come from coding all inpatient professional services, but the revenue manager did not have an estimate because the extent to which coders are capturing all billable services was unknown. Moreover, although all three networks reported that physicians’ documentation for billing was improving, they also reported a continuing need to improve physicians’ documentation. In addition, Network 22 (Long Beach) "
949,"reported that its accounts receivable staff had difficulties keeping up with the increased volume of bills because it had not hired additional staff members or contracted help on accounts receivable. As a result of these operational limitations, VA lacks a reliable estimate of uncollected dollars, and therefore does not have the basis to assess its systemwide operational effectiveness. For example, some uncollected dollars result from billing backlogs and billable care missed in coding. In addition, VA does"
950," not know the net impact of actual third-party collections on supplementing its annual appropriation for medical care. For example, CBO relies on reported cost data from central office and field staff directly involved in billing and collection functions. However, these costs do not include all costs incurred by VA in the generation of revenue. According to a CBO official, VA does not include in its collections cost the investments it has made in information technology or resources used in the identificatio"
951,"n of other health insurance during the enrollment process. VA continues to implement its 2001 Improvement Plan, which is designed to increase collections by improving and standardizing VA’s collections processes. The plan’s 24 actions are to address known operational problems affecting revenue performance. These problems include unidentified insurance for some patients, insufficient documentation for billing, coding staff shortages, gaps in the automated capture of billing data, and insufficient pursuit of "
952,"accounts receivable. The plan also addresses uneven performance across collection sites. The plan seeks increased collections through standardization of policy and processes in the context of decentralized management, in which VA’s 21 network directors and their respective medical center directors have responsibility for the collections process. Since management is decentralized, collections procedures can vary across sites. For example, sites’ procedures can specify a different number of days waited until "
953,"first contacting insurers about unpaid bills and can vary on whether to contact by letter, telephone, or both. The plan intends to create greater process standardization, in part, by requiring certain collections processes, such as the use of electronic medical records by all networks to provide coders better access to documentation and legible records. When fully implemented, the plan’s actions are intended to improve collections by reducing operational problems, such as missed billing opportunities. For e"
954,"xample, two of the plan’s actions—requiring patient contacts to gather insurance information prior to scheduled appointments and electronically linking VA to major insurers to identify patients’ insurance—are intended to increase VA’s awareness of its patients who have other health insurance. VA has implemented some of the improvement plan’s 24 actions, which were scheduled for completion at various times through 2003, but is behind the plan’s original schedule. The plan had scheduled 15 of the 24 actions f"
955,"or completion through May 25, 2002, but as of that date VA had only completed 8 of the actions. Information obtained from CBO in April 2003 indicates that 10 are complete and 7 are scheduled for implementation by the end of 2003. Implementation of the remaining actions will begin in 2004 as part of a financial system pilot with full implementation expected in 2005 or 2006. (Appendix I lists the actions and those VA reports as completed through April 28, 2003.) In May 2002, VHA established its CBO to undersc"
956,"ore the importance of revenue, patient eligibility, and enrollment and to give strategic focus to improving these functions. Officials in the office told us that they have developed a new approach for improving third-party collections that can help increase revenue collections by further revising processes and providing a new business focus on collections. For example, the CBO’s strategy incorporates improvements to the electronic transmission of bills and initiation of a system to receive and process third"
957,"-party payments electronically. CBO’s new approach also encompasses initiatives beyond the improvement plan, such as the one in the Under Secretary for Health’s May 2002 memorandum that directed all facilities to refer accounts receivable older than 60 days to a collection agency, unless a facility can document a better in-house process. According to the Deputy Chief Business Officer, the use of collection agencies has shown some signs of success—with outstanding accounts receivables dropping from $1,378 mi"
958,"llion to $1,317 million from the end of May to the end of July 2002, a reduction of about $61 million or 4 percent. CBO is in the process of acquiring a standardized Patient Financial Services System (PFSS) that could be shared across VA. VA’s goal with PFSS is to implement a commercial off-the-shelf health care billing and accounts receivable software system. Under PFSS, a unique record will be established for each veteran. Patient information will be standardized— including veteran insurance data, which w"
959,"ill be collected, managed, and verified. Receipts of health care products and services will be added to the patient records as they are provided or dispensed. And PFSS will automatically extract needed data for billing, with the majority of billings sent to payers without manual intervention. After the system is acquired, VA will conduct a demonstration project in Network 10 (Cincinnati). According to the Deputy Chief Business Officer, in May 2003 VA anticipates awarding a contract for the development and i"
960,"mplementation of PFSS. CBO’s plan is to install this automated financial system in other facilities and networks if it is successfully implemented in the pilot site. CBO is taking action on a number of other initiatives to improve collections, including the following: Planning and developing software upgrades to facilitate the health care service review process and electronically receive and respond to requests from insurers for additional documentation. Establishing the Health Revenue Center to centralize "
961,"preregistration, insurance identification and verification, and accounts receivable activities. For example, during a preregistration pilot in Network 11 (Ann Arbor), the Health Revenue Center made over 246,000 preregistration telephone calls to patients to verify their insurance information. According to VA, over 23,000 insurance policies were identified, resulting in $4.8 million in collections. Assessing its performance based on private sector performance metrics, including measuring the pace of collecti"
962,"ons relative to the amount of accounts receivable. As VA faces increased demand for medical care, particularly from higher- income veterans, third-party collections for nonservice-connected conditions remain an important source of revenue to supplement VA’s appropriations. VA has been improving its billing and collecting under a reasonable-charges fee schedule it established in 1999, but VA has not completed its efforts to address problems in collections operations. In this regard, fully implementing the 20"
963,"01 Improvement Plan could help VA maximize future collections by addressing problems such as missed billing opportunities. CBO’s initiatives could further enhance collections by identifying root causes of problems in collections operations, providing a focused approach to addressing the root causes, establishing performance measures, and holding responsible parties accountable for achieving the performance standards. Our work and VA’s continuing initiatives to improve collections indicate that VA has not co"
964,"llected all third-party payments to which it is entitled. In this regard, it is important that VA develop a reliable estimate of uncollected dollars. VA also does not have a complete measure of its full collections costs. Consequently, VA cannot determine how effectively it supplements its medical care appropriation with third-party collections. Mr. Chairman, this concludes my prepared remarks. I will be pleased to answer any questions you or other members of the subcommittee may have. For further informati"
965,"on regarding this testimony, please contact Cynthia A. Bascetta at (202) 512-7101. Michael T. Blair, Jr. and Michael Tropauer also contributed to this statement. Certain actions are mandated in the plan, that is, are required, but these actions are not legal or regulatory mandates. One action item was cancelled but its intended improvements will be incorporated into an automated financial system initiative. VA designated the electronic billing project, shown here as “17a,” as completed. However, this indica"
966,"ted only partial completion of action 17, which includes an additional project. VA Health Care: Third Party Collections Rising as VA Continues to Address Problems in Its Collections Operations. GAO-03-145. Washington, D.C.: January 31, 2003. VA Health Care: VA Has Not Sufficiently Explored Alternatives for Optimizing Third-Party Collections. GAO-01-1157T. Washington, D.C.: September 20, 2001. VA Health Care: Third-Party Charges Based on Sound Methodology; Implementation Challenges Remain. GAO/HEHS-99-124. W"
967,"ashington, D.C.: June 11, 1999. This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately."
968,"Under the TVA Act of 1933 (TVA Act), as amended, TVA is not subject to most of the regulatory and oversight requirements that commercial electric utilities must satisfy. The Act vests all authority to run and operate TVA in its three-member board of directors. Legislation also limits competition between TVA and other utilities. The TVA Act was amended in 1959 to establish what is commonly referred to as the TVA “fence,” which prohibits TVA, with some exceptions, from entering into contracts to sell power ou"
969,"tside the service area that TVA and its distributors were serving on July 1, 1957. In addition, the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (EPAct) provides TVA with certain protections from competition, called the “anti-cherry picking” provisions. Under EPAct, TVA is exempt from having to allow other utilities to use its transmission lines to transmit (“wheel”) power to customers within TVA’s service area. This legislative framework generally insulates TVA from direct wholesale competition. As a result, TVA remains in a"
970," position similar to that of a regulated utility monopoly. EPAct’s requirement that utilities use their transmission lines to transmit wholesale electricity for other utilities has enabled wholesale customers to obtain electricity from a variety of competing suppliers, thus increasing wholesale competition in the electric utility industry across the United States. In addition, restructuring efforts in many states have created competition at the retail level. If, as expected, retail restructuring continues t"
971,"o occur on a state-by-state basis over the next several years, then industrial, commercial, and, ultimately, residential consumers will be able to purchase their power from one of several competitors rather than from one utility monopoly. Since EPAct exempts TVA from having to transmit power from other utilities to customers within its territory, TVA has not been directly affected by the ongoing restructuring of the electric utility industry to the same extent as other utilities. However, if the Congress we"
972,"re to eliminate TVA’s exemption from the wheeling provision of EPAct, its customers would have the option of purchasing their power from other sources after their contracts with TVA expire. Under the Clinton administration’s proposal in April 1999 to promote retail competition in the electric power industry, which TVA supported, TVA’s exemption from the wheeling provision of EPAct would have been eliminated after January 1, 2003. If this or a similar proposal is enacted, TVA may be required to use its trans"
973,"mission lines to transmit the power of other utilities for consumption within its service territory. A balancing factor is that recent proposals would have also removed the statutory restrictions that prevent TVA from selling wholesale power outside its service territory. Because of these ongoing restructuring efforts, TVA management, like many industry experts, expects that in the future TVA may lose its legislative protections from competition. TVA’s management recognized the need to act to better positio"
974,"n TVA to compete in an era of increasing competition and, in July 1997, issued a 10-year business plan with that goal in mind. TVA established a 10-year horizon because a majority of its long- term contracts with distributors could begin expiring at that time, and TVA could be facing greater competitive pressures by 2007. The plan contained three strategic objectives: reduce TVA’s cost of power in order to be in a position to offer competitively priced power by 2007, increase financial flexibility by reduci"
975,"ng fixed costs, and build customer allegiance. To help meet the first two strategic objectives noted above, one of the key goals of TVA’s 10-year plan was to reduce debt from its 1997 levels by about one-half, to about $13.2 billion. In addition, while not specifically discussed in the published plan, TVA planned to reduce the balance (i.e., recover the costs through rates) of its deferred assets from about $8.5 billion to $500 million, which TVA estimated to be the net realizable value of its deferred nucl"
976,"ear units. TVA planned to generate cash that could be used to reduce debt by increasing rates beginning in 1998, reducing expenses, and limiting capital expenditures; these actions would increase its financial flexibility and future competitiveness. TVA’s plan to reduce debt and recover the costs of deferred assets while it is still legislatively protected from competition was intended to help position TVA to achieve its ultimate goal of offering competitively priced power by 2007. In a competitive market, "
977,"if TVA’s power were priced above market because of high debt service costs and the recovery through rates of the costs of its deferred assets, it would be in danger of losing customers. Losing customers could result in stranded costs if TVA is unable to sell the capacity released by the departing customers to other customers for at least the same price. Stranded costs, as discussed later, are costs that are uneconomical to recover in a competitive environment due to regulatory changes. For each of the three"
978," objectives addressed in this report, you asked us to answer specific questions. Regarding debt and deferred assets, you asked us to determine what progress TVA has made in achieving the goals of its 10-year business plan for reducing debt and deferred assets, and to what extent TVA has used the additional revenues generated from its 1998 rate increase to reduce debt and deferred assets. Regarding TVA’s financial condition, you asked us to compare TVA’s financial condition, including debt and fixed cost rat"
979,"ios, to neighboring investor-owned utilities (IOUs). Finally, regarding stranded costs, you asked us to (1) explain the link between TVA’s debt and its potential stranded costs, (2) determine whether TVA has calculated potential stranded costs for any of its distributors, and if so, determine the methodology it used, and (3) determine the options for recovering any potential stranded costs at TVA. We evaluated the progress TVA has made in achieving the debt reduction and recovery of deferred assets goals of"
980," its 10-year plan, and determined the extent to which TVA is using revenue from its 1998 rate increase to reduce debt and recover the cost of its deferred assets, by interviewing TVA and Congressional Budget Office (CBO) officials; reviewing and analyzing various TVA reports and documents, including annual reports, audited financial statements, the original 10-year business plan and proposed revisions to it; and reviewing supporting documentation (analytical spreadsheets, etc.) and assumptions underlying TV"
981,"A’s 10-year plan. To determine TVA’s financial condition, we analyzed TVA’s debt and fixed costs, and then compared TVA to its likely competitors. To accomplish this, we obtained financial data for TVA and its likely competitors from their audited financial statements; computed and compared key financial ratios for TVA and its likely competitors; analyzed data on the future market price of power; interviewed TVA officials about their efforts to position themselves competitively, including their efforts to r"
982,"educe debt, recover the cost of their deferred assets, and mitigate and/or recover stranded costs; and reviewed IOU annual reports to determine what steps the IOUs are taking to financially position themselves for competition. To assess TVA’s potential stranded costs, we interviewed industry experts at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), Edison Electric Institute (EEI), and CBO on the options other utilities have pursued to recover stranded costs; reviewed Energy Information Administration (EIA"
983,") documents on stranded cost recovery at the state level; questioned TVA officials on TVA’s plans for calculating and recovering potential stranded costs; and analyzed TVA’s contracts to determine whether TVA has contractually relieved its customers of any obligation to pay for any stranded costs. Also, to determine the link between TVA’s debt and its potential stranded costs, we analyzed the interrelationship between debt reduction and stranded cost mitigation. Additional information on our scope and metho"
984,"dology is in appendix I. We conducted our review from April 2000 through January 2001 in accordance with generally accepted government auditing standards. To the extent practical, we used audited financial statement data in performing our analyses, or reconciled the data we used to audited financial statements; however, we were not able to do so in all cases and we did not verify the accuracy of all the data we obtained and used in our analyses. In addition, we based information on debt reduction, deferred "
985,"asset recovery, and the future market price of power on TVA’s planned revisions to its key goals and assumptions at the time of our review. We requested written comments from TVA on a draft of this report. TVA provided both technical comments, which we have incorporated, as appropriate and written comments, which are reproduced in appendix III. In April 1999, we reported that capital expenditures not accounted for in the 1997 plan would negatively impact TVA’s ability to achieve its plans to reduce debt and"
986," recover the cost of deferred assets by 2007. At that time, TVA’s fiscal year 2000 federal budget request acknowledged that TVA would not achieve its goal of reducing outstanding debt by about half until 2009, 2 years later than originally planned. TVA’s goal in its original plan was to reduce debt to about $13.2 billion. Since April 1999, TVA has fallen further behind in meeting its debt reduction goal. TVA now has a target of reducing debt to $19.6 billion by 2007; it no longer is projecting a target for "
987,"debt reduction beyond 2007. For fiscal years 1998 through 2000, TVA reduced its debt by about $1.4 billion. However, TVA’s debt reduction shortfall also totaled about $1.4 billion, which resulted from greater than anticipated capital expenditures and annual operating and other expenses and lower revenues than projected in 1997. These same factors will hamper TVA’s debt reduction efforts over the last 7 years of the plan. In addition, although TVA reduced deferred assets to the extent planned for the first 3"
988," years of the plan, it is revising the amount of deferred assets it plans to recover through 2007 downward. TVA now plans to reduce the balance of its deferred assets to about $3.9 billion by September 30, 2007, compared to its original goal of $500 million. To achieve the overall debt reduction goal in the original 10-year plan, TVA established annual debt reduction goals. In the 1997 plan, the annual debt reduction goals ranged from $476 million in 1998 to $2 billion in 2007. TVA has made progress in redu"
989,"cing debt, and in fact, exceeded its target goal in the first year of the plan. However, TVA fell far short in the second and third years. Through the first 3 years of the 10-year plan, TVA reduced debt by about $1.4 billion, but its debt reduction shortfall also totaled about $1.4 billion. In addition, TVA is now planning to issue a revised plan that would significantly reduce the goals for 2001 through 2007. Figure 1 compares the annual debt reduction goals contained in TVA’s July 1997 10-year plan to TVA"
990,"’s actual debt reduction for fiscal years 1998 through 2000 and to TVA’s proposed revisions to its annual debt reduction goals for fiscal years 2001 through 2007. In its presidential budget submission for fiscal year 2000, TVA acknowledged that it would not achieve its goal of reducing debt by about one-half by 2007. Instead, TVA said it would not meet the debt reduction goal until 2009, 2 years later than the goal in its original 10-year plan. TVA is in the process of revising its goal for reducing outstan"
991,"ding debt again. TVA officials now estimate that its outstanding debt by September 30, 2007, will be between $18 billion and $24 billion, with a target of about $19.6 billion, or about $6.4 billion higher than TVA envisioned when it issued the 1997 plan. TVA is not projecting a target reduction goal beyond 2007. Figure 2 compares the annual outstanding debt goals contained in TVA’s July 1997 10-year plan to TVA’s actual debt outstanding for fiscal years 1998 through 2000 and to TVA’s proposed revisions to a"
992,"nnual goals for fiscal years 2001 through 2007. TVA officials attribute the $1.4 billion debt reduction shortfall over the first 3 years to four factors. The first factor is greater than anticipated cash expenditures for new generating capacity. For fiscal years 1998 through 2000, TVA spent $436 million more than planned to purchase new peaking generator units. The 1997 plan assumed that TVA would meet future increases in demand for power by purchasing power from other utilities, which would have used less "
993,"cash through 2007 than purchasing the peaking units. TVA officials believe that its capital expenditures for new generating capacity will have two positive effects. First, they believe the new generating capacity will ultimately reduce TVA’s cost of power, even though the increased capital expenditures will use cash that could have been used to reduce debt. Second, they believe the new generating capacity will enhance system reliability by providing a dependable source of power. The second factor to which T"
994,"VA officials attribute the debt reduction shortfall over the first 3 years of the plan is greater than anticipated capital expenditures requiring cash for environmental controls to meet Clean Air Act requirements. For fiscal years 1998 through 2000, TVA spent $276 million more than planned on environmental controls. Meanwhile, over the 3-year period, TVA spent about $221 million less than planned on other types of capital items. The net effect of increased spending on new generating capacity and environment"
995,"al controls and decreased spending on other types of capital items is that TVA’s capital expenditures have exceeded the planned amount. TVA had forecast about $1.7 billion in capital expenditures over that 3-year period; its actual capital expenditures were almost $500 million more (about $2.2 billion). Under current plans, TVA expects its major capital costs for new generating capacity and environmental controls to be completed by 2004. Figure 3 compares the annual capital expenditure goals contained in TV"
996,"A’s July 1997 10-year plan to TVA’s actual capital expenditures for fiscal years 1998 through 2000 and to TVA’s proposed revisions to annual goals for fiscal years 2001 through 2007. The third factor to which TVA officials attribute the debt reduction shortfall over the first 3 years of the plan is a net increase in annual expenses requiring cash that could have been used for debt reduction. For fiscal years 1998 through 2000, TVA’s operating and maintenance expenses, and sales, general, and administrative "
997,"expenses were greater than anticipated. This increase in annual expenses was partially offset by a reduction in fuel and purchased power expense and interest expense. The net effect was that annual expenses totaled about $122 million more than planned. The fourth factor to which TVA officials attribute the debt reduction shortfall over the first 3 years of the plan is less revenue than originally anticipated. According to TVA officials, the revenue shortfall was caused primarily by mild winters that lessene"
998,"d demand for electricity. The revenue shortfall for fiscal years 1998 through 2000 totaled about $725 million. Our analysis confirms that the above four factors were the primary ones that hampered TVA’s debt reduction efforts for fiscal years 1998 through 2000. These factors are also projected to limit TVA’s ability to reduce debt in fiscal years 2001 through 2007. Over this 7-year period, the primary factors limiting TVA’s debt reduction efforts are that annual revenue is expected to be lower, and capital "
999,"expenditures and cash expenses are expected to be higher. This reduces the amount of cash that would have been available to repay debt. TVA now anticipates that its revenue will be about $2.2 billion lower, and its capital expenditures and cash expenses—at about $1.6 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively—will be higher than planned in 1997. Table 1 shows our analysis of the factors affecting cash available to reduce debt from 1998 through 2007. In developing its 10-year plan, TVA planned to use the additio"
1000,"nal revenue from its 1998 rate increase to reduce its debt. TVA officials attribute about an additional $1.24 billion in revenue over the first 3 years of the plan to the rate increase. During this period, TVA has reduced its outstanding debt by more than a comparable amount—about $1.4 billion. A key element of TVA’s plan was not only to reduce the cost of its power by reducing its debt and the corresponding interest expense, but also to recover a substantial portion of the costs of its deferred assets. By "
1001,"increasing operating revenues and reducing interest and other expenses to generate cash flow that could be used to reduce debt, TVA would have the opportunity to use revenues in excess of expenses to recover a portion of the costs of its deferred assets. However, as noted previously, the proposed revision to the plan contains additional operating and other expenses over the remainder of the 10-year period, which, absent any future rate increases, will decrease the amount of revenue available to recover defe"
1002,"rred assets. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets, some of which will have to be recovered in the future. Although TVA recovered the costs of deferred assets to the extent planned over the first 3 years of the plan, it is reducing its overall deferred asset recovery goals through 2007. TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 billion as of September 30, 2000. At that time, TVA’s investme"
1003,"nt in its deferred nuclear units represented about 26 percent of the cost of TVA’s total undepreciated generating property, plant, and equipment. The deferred units do not generate power, and TVA has chosen not to begin to recover their costs through rates. In contrast, the unrecovered costs of TVA’s operating nuclear plants, which produced about 31 percent of TVA’s power in 2000, represented about 45 percent of the cost of TVA’s total undepreciated generating assets as of September 30, 2000. At the time TV"
1004,"A issued the original 10-year business plan, the unrecovered balance of TVA’s deferred assets, including both its nuclear units and other deferred assets, was about $8.5 billion. TVA recovered the cost of deferred assets to the extent planned for over the first 3 years of the plan. Through September 30, 2000, $1.1 billion in other deferred assets had been recovered through rates, but recovery of the cost of the deferred nuclear units had not begun. However, since the original plan was issued, TVA has also a"
1005,"dded about $600 million in other deferred assets, some of which will have to be recovered in the future; its current total is about $8 billion. TVA’s overall plan for recovering the costs of its deferred assets through 2007 is being reduced significantly. TVA now plans to reduce the balance of its deferred assets, including both its nuclear units and other deferred assets, to about $3.9 billion; this represents much less deferred asset recovery than TVA’s original estimate of $500 million. Figure 4 compares"
1006, the annual estimated remaining balances of deferred assets (both the deferred nuclear units and other deferred assets) contained in TVA’s July 1997 10-year plan to TVA’s actual deferred asset balances as of the end of fiscal years 1998 through 2000 and to TVA’s estimated balances for fiscal years 2001 through 2007. Not reducing debt and recovering deferred assets to the extent planned by 2007 while still legislatively protected from competition could diminish TVA’s future competitive prospects. Specificall
1007,"y, not meeting these goals could cause the price of its future power to be above market, if TVA’s debt service costs remain relatively high at the time it is required to compete and if TVA is at the same time attempting to recover the costs of its deferred assets through rates. Assuming that TVA’s outstanding debt balance is $19.6 billion as of September 30, 2007, and its weighted average interest rate remains about 6.5 percent, we estimate that TVA’s interest expense in the year 2008 will be about $1.27 bi"
1008,"llion, about $416 million higher than if debt were reduced to $13.2 billion. As we stated in our April 1999 report, the more progress TVA makes in addressing these issues while it has legislative protections, the greater its prospects for being competitive if it loses those protections in the future. Although reducing debt and the amount of deferred asset costs that have not yet been recovered are important to TVA as it prepares for competition, TVA’s future competitiveness will be based to a large degree o"
1009,"n market conditions and how TVA will be restructured if and when TVA loses its legislative protections. Of particular importance is the uncertainty of the future market price of power. In our 1999 assessment of TVA’s 10-year plan, we found that TVA’s projection of the future market price of wholesale power in 2007 was somewhat lower than the projections of leading industry experts. This lower projection prompted TVA to be aggressive in its planning to reduce costs to position itself to offer competitively p"
1010,"riced power by 2007. TVA and other industry experts are continuing to revise their projections of the future market price of power in 2007. TVA’s projection is a load-shaped forecast—i.e., its projection is based specifically on how TVA’s load varies during different hours of the day and different days of the week. TVA officials told us that higher projections are warranted now than when it prepared its plan in 1997 primarily due to projected increases in the price of natural gas, but also due to a combinat"
1011,"ion of other factors, including the extreme volatility of spot prices (in the summer months), increasing power demands beyond what they expected 3 years ago, shortages (or at least, shrinking surpluses) of both generating and transmission capacity, and a better understanding of the increased costs of complying with environmental regulations that are likely to take effect between now and 2007. TVA has stated that the impact of these factors can be seen in higher current trading prices, higher forward prices "
1012,"being offered by suppliers, higher long-term contract prices, and higher energy prices. TVA officials are now forecasting a market price of power in 2007 in the range of 4.0 to 5.0 cents per kilowatthour (kWh), which would be sufficient to cover its projected costs of about 3.8 to 3.9 cents per kWh in 2007. An analysis by Salomon Smith Barney, which extends through 2004, supports TVA’s position that market indicators suggest that the future market price of power will be higher during this part of the plan p"
1013,"eriod. Not all industry experts agree with TVA’s belief that the price of natural gas will necessarily drive electricity prices higher. For example, the Energy Information Administration (EIA) projects a downward price trend (in current dollars) between now and 2007 in the region in which TVA operates, in part due to declining coal prices that EIA projects would more than offset increasing gas prices. EIA also projects that nuclear fuel prices will remain stable. However, when projecting future prices by ge"
1014,"ographic region, EIA and other industry experts generally forecast the future market price of power on an average yearly price that includes all peaks and valleys. Such average yearly price forecasts are not directly comparable to TVA’s load-shaped forecast. Differing forecasts by various industry experts underscore the uncertainty of predicting the future market price of power. The higher actual market prices are, the better positioned TVA will be to generate revenue that could be used to pay down debt and"
1015," recover costs, including the costs of deferred assets. However, by increasing its projections for the future market price of power, TVA assumes it can accommodate a higher debt level than originally planned. Because of the uncertainly surrounding whether TVA’s projections of higher market prices in 2007 are accurate, TVA’s higher debt projections increase the risk that it will not be able to generate the revenue needed to recover all costs or offer competitively priced power at that time. In a competitive "
1016,"environment, these assumptions could increase the federal government’s risk of loss due to its financial involvement with TVA. A key objective of TVA’s 1997 plan was to alter its cost structure from a rigid, high fixed-to-variable cost relationship to a cost structure with more financial flexibility that is better able to adjust to a more volatile marketplace. However, while TVA has made positive steps, its financial flexibility remains below that of likely competitors, largely because its debt remains rela"
1017,"tively high. Another key objective of TVA’s 1997 plan was to reduce its cost of power. One of the components of the cost of power is the recovery of the costs of its capital assets. Similar to improvements in flexibility, while TVA has made some progress in recovering the costs of its capital assets, financial indicators show that TVA has recovered fewer of these costs than its likely competitors. In 1995 we reported that one option available for TVA to improve its financial condition was to raise rates whi"
1018,"le it is still legislatively protected from competition and use the proceeds to reduce its debt. In 1998, TVA implemented its first rate increase in 10 years. For the previous 10 years, TVA had chosen to keep rates as low as possible rather than generate additional revenue that could have been used to reduce debt. Revenue from TVA’s 1998 rate increase has reduced debt (and corresponding interest expense) and recovered some of the costs of deferred assets over the first 3 years of its 10-year plan. From Sept"
1019,"ember 30, 1997, through September 30, 2000, TVA reduced its debt from about $27.4 billion to about $26.0 billion. This debt reduction, along with the refinancing of debt at lower interest rates, enabled TVA to reduce its annual interest expense from about $2.0 billion in fiscal year 1997 to about $1.7 billion in fiscal year 2000. In addition, TVA has recovered about $1.1 billion of its deferred assets through rates. While not reducing debt and recovering the costs of deferred assets to the extent anticipate"
1020,"d in its original plan, these actions are important because they are a step toward giving TVA more financial flexibility to adjust its rates in a competitive environment. To assess the progress TVA has made in achieving its key objective of altering its cost structure from a rigid, high fixed-to-variable cost relationship to a cost structure with more financial flexibility, and to put TVA’s financial condition in perspective, we compared TVA to likely competitors in terms of (1) total financing costs, (2) f"
1021,"ixed financing costs, and (3) net cash generated from operations as a percentage of expenditures for property, plant, and equipment and common stock dividends. These ratios are indicators of TVA’s flexibility to withstand competitive or financial challenges. To assess TVA’s financing costs compared to these competitors, we computed the total financing costs to revenue ratio, which is the percentage of an entity’s operating revenue that is needed to cover all of its financing costs. A lower percentage indica"
1022,"tes greater flexibility to respond to financial or competitive challenges. Financing costs for TVA, which consist of the interest expense on its outstanding debt and payments made to the federal government as returns on past appropriations, are fixed costs in the short term that must be paid even in times of financial or competitive difficulty. In contrast, for the IOUs, financing costs include preferred and common stock dividends in addition to interest expense, because part of the IOUs’ capital is derived"
1023," from preferred and common stock and dividends represent the cost of this equity capital. Figure 5 shows that TVA’s total financing costs, although improved since 1994, remain high when compared to those of likely competitors. Next, we computed the fixed financing costs to revenue ratio, which indicates the percentage of operating revenues needed to cover the fixed portion of the financing costs. For this ratio, we excluded the common stock dividends paid by IOUs because these are not contractual obligation"
1024,"s that must be paid. They can be reduced—or even suspended in extreme cases—to allow an entity to respond to financial or competitive challenges. As with the total financing costs to revenue ratio, the lower the percentage of the fixed financing costs to revenue, the greater the financial flexibility of the entity. Figure 6 shows that, while TVA has made progress since 1994, its fixed financing costs remain high compared to those of likely competitors. For example, for fiscal year 1999, 28 cents of every re"
1025,"venue dollar earned by TVA went to pay for fixed financing costs compared to about 9 cents on average for its likely competitors. Another key indicator of financial flexibility is the ratio of net cash from operations (i.e., cash in excess of operating and interest expenses) to expenditures for property, plant, and equipment (PP&E) and common stock dividends. This net cash in effect represents the amount available for management’s discretionary use. A percentage of 100 would indicate sufficient net cash pro"
1026,"vided by operations to pay for 100 percent of annual PP&E expenditures and common stock dividends. By necessity, utilities that are unable to pay for capital expenditures from net cash are forced to pay for them through retained earnings or by borrowing funds or issuing stock. Issuing debt to cover capital expenditures increases a utility’s cost of power by requiring annual interest payments, and issuing stock could also increase the cost of power through the payment of dividends. Since TVA does not pay div"
1027,"idends, its ratio only includes expenditures for PP&E. A higher percentage indicates greater flexibility. Because of increased revenue from TVA’s recent rate increase, a significant reduction in annual capital expenditures for its nuclear power program, and cost control measures that reduced certain expenses, TVA’s ratio has improved significantly and now compares favorably to those of likely competitors. Figure 7 illustrates the improvement TVA has made to date compared to likely competitors. Electricity p"
1028,"roviders, including TVA, generally recover their capital costs once the capital assets have been placed in service by spreading these costs over future periods for recovery through rates. This way, customers “pay” for the capital assets over time as the assets provide benefits. When a decision is made not to complete a capital asset, it becomes “abandoned.” Accounting standards require that abandoned assets be classified as regulatory assets and amortized into operating expense; therefore, they would be inc"
1029,"luded in rates over time. Thus, even though abandoned assets are nonproductive, the costs may still be recovered. TVA’s three uncompleted deferred nuclear power units have not been classified as abandoned, even though no construction work has been done in the last 12 to 15 years. In 1995 and 1997, we reported that TVA should classify them as regulatory assets and begin to recover the costs immediately. However, TVA continues to assert that there is a possibility the units will be completed in the future and"
1030," has not classified them as regulatory assets and begun to recover their costs. As of September 30, 2000, the deferred cost of the three uncompleted nuclear generating units was about $6.3 billion. If TVA is required to compete with other electricity providers, depending on the market price of power and TVA’s cost of providing power, recovery of these deferred assets could be difficult. Effective for 1999, TVA began emphasizing the accelerated recovery of certain of its other deferred assets in its planning"
1031," and adopted accounting policies that would enable it to recover more of these costs earlier. However, as the following analysis indicates, TVA’s continued deferral of the $6.3 billion related to the three nuclear units would hinder its ability to compete in a restructured environment, if TVA tries to recover the costs through rates. This would increase the risk of loss to the federal government from its financial involvement in TVA. The extent to which the costs of deferred capital assets have not been rec"
1032,"overed by TVA compared to its likely competitors can be shown by two analyses. The first analysis compares the amount of capital assets that have not yet begun to be taken into rates to gross PP&E. For TVA, this consists of construction work in progress (CWIP) and the costs of the deferred nuclear units; for the other entities this consists of CWIP only. A lower ratio indicates fewer capital costs to be recovered through future rates, and therefore more flexibility to adjust rates to meet future competition"
1033,". TVA’s ratio improved—dropping by more than half—when it brought two nuclear plants on line in 1996 and began to recover their costs. However, as figure 8 shows, the portion of TVA’s capital assets that has not yet begun to be taken into rates remains significantly higher than that of likely competitors. This is due largely to the deferral of TVA’s three uncompleted nuclear units. For example, about 19 percent of the total cost of TVA’s PP&E as of September 30, 1999, was not in rates, while the highest per"
1034,centage for TVA’s likely competitors was only 10 percent. A second way to analyze the extent to which capital costs have been recovered through rates is to compare accumulated depreciation/amortization to gross PP&E. A higher ratio indicates that a greater percentage of the cost of PP&E has been recovered through rates. A utility that has already recovered a greater portion of its capital costs could be in a better financial condition going into an increasingly competitive environment because it would not h
1035,"ave to include those costs in future rates. TVA has also made progress in this area since 1994, as have, in general, its likely competitors. However, figure 9 shows that as of September 30, 1999, TVA had recovered a substantially smaller portion of its capital costs than most of its likely competitors, again, largely due to the deferred nuclear units. When considering its financing costs and unrecovered deferred assets, TVA’s financial condition compares unfavorably to its likely competitors. Although TVA’s"
1036," ratio of net cash from operations to expenditures for PP&E and common stock dividends is better than its likely competitors, this advantage is negated by TVA’s relatively higher financing costs, including fixed financing costs, and relatively higher deferred asset costs. These factors reduce TVA’s financial flexibility to respond to future financial or competitive pressures, a key objective of TVA’s 10-year plan. Bond analysts with experience rating TVA’s bonds confirmed our assessment by stating that if f"
1037,"orced to compete today, TVA’s financial condition would pose a serious challenge. The analysts further stated that their Aaa rating of TVA bonds is based on TVA’s ties to the federal government and the belief that any restructuring legislation would give TVA sufficient time to prepare for competition. According to the analysts, their bond rating of TVA was not based on the same financial criteria applied to the other entities rated. When assessing the progress TVA has made in achieving the key objectives of"
1038," its 1997 plan, TVA’s financial condition remains unfavorable compared to its likely competitors in the current environment. However, TVA also has certain competitive advantages. Specifically, it remains its own regulator; is not subject to antitrust laws and regulations; enjoys a high bond rating, and associated lower interest costs, based on its ties to the federal government; is a government entity that is not required to generate the level of net income that would be needed by a private corporation to p"
1039,"rovide an expected rate of return; is not required to pay federal and state income taxes and various local taxes, but is required to make payments in lieu of taxes to state and local governments equal to 5 percent of gross revenue from sales of power in areas where its power operations are conducted; in addition, TVA’s distributors are also required to pay various state and local taxes; and has relatively more low-cost hydroelectric power than neighboring utilities. Although TVA enjoys these competitive adv"
1040,"antages, its high debt and unrecovered costs would present challenges in a competitive environment. However, it is not possible to predict TVA’s future competitive position. In addition to uncertainties over the future market price of power, TVA’s future competitive position will be affected by a number of issues, including the specific requirements of any legislation that might remove TVA’s legislative protections, including whether it would be able to retain some or all of the competitive advantages descr"
1041,"ibed previously; actions being taken by TVA to prepare for competition in relation to those being taken by TVA’s competitors; the amount of time before TVA might lose its protections from competition and is required to compete with other utilities—the longer TVA is legislatively protected from competition, the longer it will have to reduce its debt and related financing costs and recover deferred costs through rates; the extent to which TVA would write off all or a portion of the cost of its deferred nuclea"
1042,"r units to retained earnings should it go from a regulated to a restructured, competitive environment. To the extent retained earnings is sufficient to cover the cost of the write-offs, any costs written off directly to retained earnings would not have to be recovered through future rates; and total cost of delivering power in relation to likely competitors, generation capacity and mix, transmission capability, and geographic location. Stranded costs can generally be defined as costs that become uneconomica"
1043,"l to recover through rates when a utility moves from a regulated to a competitive environment. Stranded costs arise in competitive markets as a result of uneconomic assets, the costs of which are not recoverable at market rates. There are two commonly used methods for calculating stranded costs, and various mechanisms have been used to recover them in the states that have restructured their electricity markets. TVA’s potential for stranded costs arises mainly from its uneconomic assets—primarily its three n"
1044,onproducing nuclear units with unrecovered costs totaling about $6.3 billion—and the fixed costs associated with its high debt. The mechanism(s) that would be available to TVA to recover stranded costs would determine which customer group would pay for them. Stranded costs occur when a utility moves from a regulated to a competitive environment and is unable to recover certain costs because the market price of power will not allow it to generate revenue at a level sufficient to recover these costs. Such cos
1045,"ts result from past decisions that were considered prudent when they were made, and the costs would have been recoverable in a cost-based, regulated environment. However, in a competitive environment, recovery of these costs would force a utility’s price above market, and it consequently could not recover them by charging market-based rates. As discussed below and in appendix II, states that have restructured their electricity markets have addressed the issue of mitigating and recovering potential stranded "
1046,"costs in various ways. Stranded costs can be the result of, among other things: investment in generation assets that may not be able to produce competitively priced power in a restructured environment, even though the investments were considered prudent at the time they were made; power purchase contracts made in anticipation of future needs that would become uneconomical should market prices for power in a competitive market become lower; regulatory assets, such as deferred income taxes that regulators wou"
1047,"ld have eventually allowed utilities to collect but may not be recoverable in a competitive market; future decommissioning costs for nuclear facilities; and social programs where public utility commissions mandated spending for programs such as demand side management−such costs would typically be capitalized and amortized in a regulated environment, but, since the costs are not part of generating power, the market price for electricity under competition may not allow recovery of them. Two methods are common"
1048,"ly used to calculate the amount of allowable stranded costs—the FERC “revenues lost” methodology and the “asset-by- asset approach.” FERC has jurisdiction over stranded cost recovery related to wholesale power sales and power transmission and uses the revenues lost method in determining allowable stranded costs for these activities. If legislation is enacted providing for TVA to compete in a restructured environment, TVA would likely fall under FERC jurisdiction for stranded cost recovery for its wholesale "
1049,"customers. TVA’s wholesale sales to its 158 distributors were about $6 billion in fiscal year 2000, or about 88 percent of TVA’s total operating revenues. Under the FERC methodology, whether a utility’s plants are nonproducing or productive is immaterial to the stranded cost calculation, as long as the costs associated with the plants are included in rates at the time a customer departs TVA’s system. According to FERC officials, stranded cost recovery assumes the costs are already in the rate base; if not, "
1050,"FERC officials told us they would likely not consider them in a stranded cost recovery claim. The three deferred nuclear units, with costs of about $6.3 billion as of September 30, 2000, that TVA has not yet begun recovering, are a primary reason for TVA’s potential exposure to stranded costs. However, TVA’s projections through 2007, using its current power rates, show that by the end of 2007 the costs will have been reduced to about $3.8 billion. Depending on the timing of any restructuring legislation aff"
1051,"ecting TVA and assuming that FERC would have jurisdiction over TVA, it is unclear whether FERC would consider these costs to be in TVA’s rate base and, thus, allow TVA to include some or all of these costs in a stranded cost recovery claim. In the past when TVA calculated its stranded costs, it used the FERC “revenues lost” methodology. When the 4-County Electric Power Association (near Columbus, Mississippi) and the city of Bristol, Virginia, threatened to find other sources of power, TVA used the FERC met"
1052,"hodology to calculate stranded costs, and TVA officials told us that they would continue to use the FERC methodology to calculate stranded costs in the future. TVA’s calculations of stranded costs for the 4-County Electric Power Association ranged from $57 million to $133 million. The 4-County Electric Power Association ultimately decided not to leave the TVA system and therefore no stranded costs were assessed. In contrast, Bristol did leave the TVA system. TVA again calculated stranded costs using the FER"
1053,"C methodology and initially attempted to assess Bristol for $54 million for stranded costs. However, TVA and the city of Bristol ultimately negotiated a settlement that included an agreement under which Bristol would not be assessed for stranded costs, but would purchase transmission and certain ancillary services from TVA. According to a FERC official, under the revenues lost method, when a customer leaves a utility’s system, stranded costs are calculated by first taking the revenue stream that the utility"
1054," could have expected to recover if the customer had not left, then subtracting the competitive market value of the electricity capacity released by the departing customer (that the utility will sell to other customers), then multiplying the result by the length of time the utility could have reasonably expected to continue to serve the departing customer. Figure 10 illustrates TVA’s potential application of the FERC methodology. The second commonly used method to calculate stranded costs is the “asset-by-as"
1055,"set” or “bottoms up” approach. This method has been used by the states when they restructure their retail markets. In this method, the market value of a utility’s generating assets is determined and compared to the amount at which those assets are currently recorded on the utility’s books (book value). The difference would be reflected on the income statement as a gain or loss and recorded in the retained earnings of the organization. If the total book value of a utility’s generating assets exceeds their to"
1056,"tal market value, the utility would have stranded costs equal to the difference between book and market values. Because TVA is a unique self-regulator that crosses state borders and is not currently subject to FERC regulation, it is unclear what entity would have jurisdiction over any stranded cost recovery at the retail level. Sales to TVA’s direct service industrial customers and other nondistributors, which we consider retail sales because they are sales to final users, were about $0.7 billion in fiscal "
1057,"year 2000, or about 10.4 percent of TVA’s total operating revenues. In the states that have restructured their electricity markets, there have been five commonly used mechanisms to recover stranded costs. Depending on the approval of state regulators, utilities have the following options; the choice of option affects which customer group pays. Exit fees − fees charged to departing customers, either via a lump sum or over a set number of years. Competitive transition charge (or competitive transition assessm"
1058,"ent) − either (1) a one time charge applied to all customers at the time the state initiates restructuring, or (2) charges based on kilowatthour (kWh) usage, usually charged to remaining customers over a set number of years. Wires charge (also called transmission surcharge) − a predetermined surcharge that is not based on kWh usage, which is added to remaining customers’ power bills during a set period of time; sometimes considered a subset of competitive transition charges. Rate freeze or cap − regulators "
1059,"set a cap on the total amount a utility can charge; however, under the cap, the regulator would allow the utility to recover stranded costs by charging higher prices for the two components of the market that are still regulated (distribution and transmission). The cap is usually frozen for the estimated length of time needed to recover the stranded costs. Remaining customers bear the burden. Write off to retained earnings − In the case where a utility moves from a regulated to a competitive environment and "
1060,"has assets whose book value is in excess of market value, it would mark its assets to market value, and recognize any excess of book value over market value as a loss on the income statement, which would flow through to retained earnings. Retained earnings represent cumulative net profit from past operations that can be used to benefit either stockholders or current and future customers, by keeping profits in the company for future use. In addition, the change to a competitive environment, with overvalued a"
1061,"ssets, could result in stranded costs. However, the legislation that caused the change to a competitive environment could give utilities the option of recovering the amount of overvalued assets over time, rather than charging all the cost to retained earnings immediately. Writing off the costs of the overvalued assets to retained earnings immediately would mitigate potential stranded costs and eliminate the need to recover the cost of these assets from future ratepayers, making a utility’s power rates poten"
1062,"tially more competitive. TVA continues to operate similar to a regulated monopoly because of its legislative protections from competition. Since regulatory changes requiring TVA to compete with other electricity providers have not been made, TVA does not currently have stranded costs. However, as discussed previously, TVA has uneconomic assets—primarily its three nonproducing nuclear units with unrecovered costs totaling about $6.3 billion that do not generate revenue. In 1998, TVA estimated the net realiza"
1063,"ble value of these assets to be about $500 million. TVA has not made a final decision on whether to abandon these three units or complete them and place them into service. If it abandons them, under current accounting standards, This action would require approval of TVA’s Board. If its retained earnings are not sufficient to cover any losses arising from revaluation of these units, TVA could find itself with stranded costs if legislation were enacted that would require TVA to compete with other electricity "
1064,"providers before it completes these units and brings them into operation. TVA’s ability to recover costs that could ultimately become stranded is compounded by TVA’s high debt and corresponding financing costs. FASB 90 would apply because TVA remains in a regulated environment. restructuring legislation would have required these contracts to be renegotiated; however, it is possible that this clause will remain in effect. Thus, if TVA enters a competitive environment with stranded costs, it may be unable to "
1065,"collect them from certain departing customers after 2007, and the burden for recovering these costs may fall on remaining customers or retained earnings from prior customers. According to TVA officials, if TVA were unable to collect any stranded costs from departing customers under its contracts, remaining customers would bear the burden of stranded cost recovery. To the extent stranded cost recovery is spread among remaining customers, it would become more difficult for TVA to price its power competitively"
1066,". A key element of TVA’s 10-year business plan is to reduce its cost of power. TVA planned to accomplish this by reducing expenses, limiting capital expenditures, and instituting a rate increase in 1998 to increase the cash flow available to pay down debt. Reducing debt, in turn, reduces the corresponding annual interest expense. By reducing interest expense, TVA frees up cash that can be used to further reduce debt. In addition, these actions increase the portion of revenue that would be available to recov"
1067,"er the costs of its deferred assets. To the extent that TVA reduces costs, it will be able to offer more competitively priced power and its distributors will be less likely to leave TVA’s system for alternate suppliers. At the wholesale level, under current FERC rules, if its distributors do not leave, TVA does not have the option of recovering stranded costs. If its distributors decide to leave, TVA would have potential stranded costs if TVA is either unable to sell the power released by the departing dist"
1068,"ributor or is forced to sell the power that would have been purchased by the departing distributor for lower rates. Figure 11 illustrates the link between debt reduction and stranded costs. This circular relationship is key to understanding how TVA’s 10-year plan links to potential stranded costs. In its original 10-year plan, a key element of TVA’s plan was to reduce its cost of power by cutting its debt in half by September 30, 2007. By reducing debt, TVA would also reduce future interest expense, which w"
1069,"ould free up additional cash that could be used to further reduce debt. However, not explained in the published plan was how the revenue generated from its 1998 rate increase would give TVA the opportunity to recover the cost of its deferred assets. By increasing revenue and reducing expenses, TVA would free up revenue that could be used to recover the cost of its deferred assets and cash that could be used to pay down debt. As discussed previously, TVA estimates the additional revenue from the rate increas"
1070,"e over the first 3 years of the plan to be about $1.24 billion. TVA had the option to use that revenue for any authorized purpose, such as adding any excess revenue to retained earnings, accelerating depreciation, or amortizing its deferred assets, including writing down its deferred nuclear units. TVA planned to first amortize some of its other deferred assets before writing down its deferred nuclear units. To accomplish this, TVA’s Board of Directors approved a resolution to begin accelerating amortizatio"
1071,"n of these other deferred assets. This means that in any given year in which TVA has revenue sufficient to meet all of its legal requirements to recover all costs and comply with all laws and regulations regarding revenue levels, any excess revenue can be used to accelerate the write-down of a portion of the costs of its deferred assets; this would result in TVA recovering these costs over time. In relation to its deferred nuclear units, TVA’s original plan was to recover all but $500 million of these $6.3 "
1072,"billion costs by September 30, 2007, at which time TVA officials believed it could be subject to a competitive environment through legislative changes and expiring customer contracts. Its proposed revision to the 10-year plan now calls for a balance of about $3.8 billion by 2007, or about $3.3 billion more than originally planned. To the extent TVA recovers the costs of the deferred nuclear units before such time as the Congress may remove its legislative protections, it would no longer have to recover thes"
1073,"e costs through future rates, potentially making its power more competitive, and giving it more flexibility to operate in a competitive environment. And, as noted above, if TVA is able to offer competitively priced power by 2007, its distributors would be less likely to leave and TVA would be less likely to have stranded costs. If TVA were to lose its legislative protections today, its high level of debt and corresponding high financing costs would be a competitive challenge. This competitive challenge woul"
1074,"d be even greater if it were at the same time attempting to recover costs of deferred assets through rates. Despite having reduced its debt and deferred assets over the past 3 years, TVA still compares unfavorably to its likely competitors in these regards. In addition, TVA is revising its goals for reducing debt and deferred assets downward significantly. Whether or not the deferred assets will contribute to stranded costs that are recoverable from customers depends on the specific requirements of any legi"
1075,"slation that might remove TVA’s legislative protections and TVA’s ability to retain its current competitive advantages in a restructured environment. In addition, the longer that TVA has to prepare for competition, the longer it will have to reduce debt and recover the costs of its deferred assets and position itself more competitively. Ultimately, TVA’s ability to be competitive will depend on the future market price of power, which cannot be predicted with any certainty. TVA, in a letter from its Chief Fi"
1076,"nancial Officer, disagreed with our findings in three areas—the future market price of electricity, TVA’s financial condition compared to other utilities, and the relationship between TVA’s deferred assets and potential stranded costs. TVA’s comments are reproduced in appendix III and discussed below. In addition, TVA officials provided technical comments on the draft report, which we have incorporated as appropriate. TVA also took the opportunity to comment, in a section called “Looking Back,” on progress "
1077,"it has made since issuing its 10-year plan in 1997, including reducing debt and recovering the costs of certain deferred assets, and its goals and strategies for the future. We discuss these comments at the end of this section. Market Prices for Electricity TVA agreed that the future market price of electricity is a key factor in assessing the likelihood of success in a competitive environment and that the price cannot be predicted with any certainty, but disagreed on the general direction of prices. TVA an"
1078,"d its consultants are projecting higher future market prices. As evidence of projected increases in market prices, TVA cites higher trading prices, higher “forward” prices offered by suppliers, higher long-term contract price offerings, and higher prices for fuel sources such as natural gas. Our report discusses TVA’s views in this regard; however, we underscore the uncertainty of projections of the future price of power by citing a knowledgeable source that projects lower prices. In the draft we provided t"
1079,"o TVA for comment, we included point estimates from various sources for the future market price of power. Considering TVA’s comments, we agree that point estimates imply more certainty about future prices than we intended or is warranted. As a result, we revised our report by removing those estimates. However, to underscore the uncertainty of future market prices, we have included the Energy Information Administration’s (EIA) projection of a downward trend in the future market price of power in the region i"
1080,"n which TVA operates. EIA’s analysis was based in part on a projected decline in coal prices that, according to EIA, would more than offset projected increases in gas prices. EIA is also projecting that nuclear fuel prices will remain steady. We believe these are relevant points to consider since, in the year 2000, TVA’s power generation fuel mix was about 63 percent coal, 31 percent nuclear, 6 percent hydropower (which has no fuel cost), and less than 1 percent natural gas. Our main point is that the futur"
1081,"e market price of power “cannot be predicted with any certainty.” TVA cites prices for electricity and natural gas for December 2000 as an example of market direction and volatility to support their projection of future higher prices. We agree that the market has shown volatility at certain times. In fact, this volatility strengthens our view that future prices are uncertain. In addition, according to data from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, in the entire region in which TVA markets po"
1082,"wer, December 2000 was one of the 10 coolest periods on record over the last 106 years. We would not predict the future on the basis of such an anomaly. TVA commented that it appreciated our recognition of its progress in improving its financial condition, but objected to our findings that TVA’s financial condition compares unfavorably to likely competitors. In particular, TVA questioned our choice of financial ratios in comparing it to other utilities. TVA noted that most of our ratios ignore total cost an"
1083,"d merely reflect the differences between the capital structure of TVA and that of IOUs. We disagree with TVA in this regard. Our choice of ratios was appropriate because they result in meaningful information regarding the relative financial conditions of the entities. To assess the financial condition of the entities, we selected two types of ratios. The first type indicates an entity’s financial flexibility to successfully respond to competitive and financial challenges. In this regard, we compared TVA to "
1084,"other utilities in terms of (1) total financing costs, (2) fixed financing costs, and (3) the ability of an entity to pay for capital expenditures and common stock dividends from net cash generated from operations. Each of these ratios is an indicator of an entity’s ability to withstand stressful financial conditions. Interest costs are particularly important to consider because they are fixed costs that must be paid even in times of competitive or financial pressures. Contrary to TVA’s comment letter, we r"
1085,"ecognize the differences between TVA’s financial structure and those of IOUs and accounted for those differences in performing our analyses. As our report notes, TVA’s financing (except for internally generated cash, as with all entities we assessed) is obtained by issuing debt, while IOUs also have the option of equity financing. The requirement that TVA obtain financing only by issuing debt could be considered a competitive disadvantage because of the corresponding fixed financing costs which affect TVA’s"
1086," financial flexibility. The ratio of total financing cost to revenue compares TVA interest costs, as a percent of revenue, to the IOUs’ costs of (1) interest, (2) preferred stock dividends, and (3) common stock dividends as a percent of revenue. The ratio of fixed financing costs to revenue compares TVA interest costs, as a percent of revenue, to the fixed portion of the IOUs’ financing costs (i.e., their interest costs and preferred stock dividends) as a percent of revenue. These analyses appropriately adj"
1087,"ust for the different financing structures of the entities in assessing financing costs, and assessing the extent to which entities have fixed costs that limit their financial flexibility is a valid means by which to consider their respective financial conditions. The second type of financial ratio we used indicates the extent to which capital costs, including the costs of deferred assets, have been recovered. In this regard, we compared TVA to other utilities in terms of the (1) portion of capital assets t"
1088,"hat has not begun to be included in rates and (2) the portion of gross property, plant, and equipment that has already been recovered. These indicators are important because a high level of unrecovered capital costs could compound an entity’s challenges as it enters a competitive market. In the case of TVA, if it enters a competitive environment with the relatively high debt service costs it now carries, its ability to price its power competitively could be jeopardized, thus increasing its potential for str"
1089,"anded costs. Our report notes that TVA’s competitive challenges would be even greater if it were at the same time attempting to recover the costs of deferred assets through rates. We disagree with TVA’s statement that a single statistic—the residential price of electricity in TVA’s region—best reflects TVA’s competitiveness. While we agree that selling price is a function of cost, we note that TVA has a large amount of unrecovered costs. Since TVA remains in a regulated environment, with the ability to set "
1090,"its own rates and to recover or defer recovering the costs of some of its capital assets, this single statistic does not provide a complete picture of TVA’s costs nor its ability to operate in a competitive environment. In addition, TVA’s current cost of delivering power does not provide a complete picture of the competitive environment TVA would likely be subject to if its legislative protections and the benefits of being a wholly owned government corporation were removed. We also disagree with TVA’s state"
1091,"ment that our ratios are distorted because they do not recognize the uniqueness of TVA’s business compared to others. According to TVA, a distortion results when TVA, which has predominantly wholesale sales, is compared to other entities that have predominantly retail sales. However, these other entities also sell at wholesale and would be competing with TVA at that level. Regardless, an entity’s fixed costs and portion of capital assets that have not been recovered are relevant and important considerations"
1092," as one considers an entity’s prospects in a competitive market, be it wholesale or retail. We also note that, in its comment letter, TVA compared its total production costs to those of the 50 largest power producers in the United States, which for the most part are providers of retail power, but objected to our comparing TVA to some of the same utilities. TVA states “the report is misleading when it implies that the historical accounting value of any particular set of assets determines the potential for st"
1093,"randed costs,” and that it is the net market value of all assets combined that is germane to the determination of stranded costs, and only if their amortization drives total cost above market. While we do not disagree with TVA’s interpretation of stranded costs, we do disagree that historical accounting value plays no part in determining stranded costs. Historical accounting value, less accumulated depreciation and/or amortization, shows the amount of remaining capital costs to be recovered in the future. I"
1094,"f TVA is attempting to recover more of these costs than other utilities in a competitive market and, as a result, its rates are above market, it could have stranded costs. TVA also implies that we consider its deferred assets to be a proxy for stranded costs. On the contrary, our report clearly states that TVA could have stranded costs if it were unable to recover all its costs when selling power at or below market rates. In addition, we state that TVA’s potential for stranded costs relates to its high debt"
1095," and deferred assets, which as of September 30, 2000, totaled about $26 billion and $8 billion, respectively. Recovery of these costs could drive the price of TVA’s power above market, leading to stranded costs. This is consistent with TVA’s definition of stranded costs. Our report reaches no conclusion on whether TVA will have stranded costs; it merely points out that if TVA is unable to price its power competitively because it is attempting to recover costs it incurred in the past, it could have potential"
1096," stranded costs, depending on market conditions at the time. As noted above, due to the uncertainty of the future market price of power, we also do not conclude on whether TVA will be competitive in the future. TVA notes that it has made progress in reducing debt, and corresponding interest expense, and recovering the costs of deferred assets since it released its 1997 plan. For example, by the end of fiscal year 2001, TVA expects to have reduced its debt by about $2.2 billion and its annual interest expens"
1097,"e by about $300 million, and expects to have recovered about $2 billion in costs associated with its deferred assets. While we agree that TVA is moving in the right direction, TVA’s current proposed revisions to its 10-year plan project significantly less progress than envisioned in 1997 and these changes are not without consequence. As our report states, TVA’s current revisions to the plan estimate that debt outstanding at the end of fiscal year 2007 will be about $19.6 billion versus the $13.2 level antic"
1098,"ipated when TVA issued its 1997 plan. TVA notes that since issuing the plan in 1997, it changed its strategy by investing cash in new generating capacity that otherwise would have been used for debt reduction. However, in our report we correctly point out that, while TVA has made this change, the cash it has invested in new capacity is far less than its debt reduction shortfall. TVA’s current projections show its debt reduction through 2007 being about $6.4 billion less than planned in 1997, and its investm"
1099,"ent in new generating capacity about $1.3 billion more. As a consequence of this debt reduction shortfall, we estimate that TVA’s interest expense in 2008 will be about $416 million greater than if it had reduced debt to $13.2 billion. In the 1997 plan, one of TVA’s key stated objectives was to “alter its cost structure from its currently rigid, high fixed-to-variable cost relationship to a structure that is more flexible and better able to adjust to a volatile marketplace.” TVA’s 1997 plan further stated t"
1100,"hat interest expense is the cost component that, more than any other, challenges TVA’s ability to provide power at projected market rates in the future. This situation continues to be true today. However, as we state in our report, ultimately, TVA’s ability to be competitive will depend on the future market price of power, which cannot be predicted with any certainty. To the extent TVA is able to improve the financial ratios set out in our report, the better positioned it will be to deal with this future un"
1101,"certainty. As agreed with your offices, unless you publicly announce its contents earlier, we plan no further distribution of this letter until 7 days from its date. At that time, we will send copies of this report to appropriate House and Senate Committees; interested Members of Congress; Craven Crowell, Chairman, TVA’s Board of Directors; The Honorable Spencer Abraham, Secretary of Energy; The Honorable Mitchell E. Daniels, Jr., Director, Office of Management and Budget; and other interested parties. The "
1102,"letter will also be available on GAO’s home page at http://www.gao.gov. We will also make copies available to others upon request. Please call me at (202) 512-9508 if you or your staffs have any questions. Major contributors to this report are listed in appendix IV. We were asked to answer specific questions regarding TVA’s (1) debt and deferred assets, (2) financial condition, (3) potential stranded costs, and (4) bond rating and its impact on TVA’s interest costs. As agreed with your offices, this report "
1103,"addresses the first three questions. We plan to issue a separate report to address the fourth question. Specifically, for each of these three areas, you asked us to determine: 1. Debt and deferred assets The progress TVA has made in achieving the goals of its 10-year business plan for reducing debt and deferred assets. The extent to which TVA has used the additional revenues generated from its 1998 rate increase to reduce debt and deferred and regulatory assets. How TVA’s financial condition, including debt"
1104," and fixed cost ratios, compares to neighboring investor-owned utilities (IOUs). The link between TVA’s debt and its potential stranded costs. Whether TVA has calculated potential stranded costs for any of its distributors, and if so, what methodology they used. TVA’s options for recovering any potential stranded costs. To identify the progress TVA has made in achieving the goals of its 10-year business plan for reducing debt and deferred assets, we reviewed GAO’s prior report on TVA’s 10-year Business Plan"
1105,"; interviewed TVA and Congressional Budget Office (CBO) officials; reviewed and analyzed various TVA reports and documents, including annual reports, audited financial statements, TVA’s 10-year business plan, and proposed updates to the plan; and analyzed supporting documentation (analytical spreadsheets, etc.) and assumptions underlying TVA’s 10-year plan and proposed updates to the plan. To identify the extent to which TVA has used the additional revenues generated from its 1998 rate increase to reduce de"
1106,"bt and deferred and regulatory assets, we obtained an estimate from TVA of the amount of additional revenue generated from its 1998 rate increase; analyzed sales and revenue data in the supporting schedules to the proposed revision to the 10-year plan to determine whether TVA’s estimate was reasonable; and compared the estimate of the amount of additional revenue generated from the 1998 rate increase to the reduction in debt and deferred assets over the first 3 years of the plan. To determine how TVA’s fina"
1107,"ncial condition, including debt and fixed ratios, compares to its likely competitors, we reviewed prior GAO reports on TVA that analyzed its financial determined likely competitors by analyzing prior GAO reports and other reports by industry experts; obtained and analyzed financial data from the audited financial statements of TVA, seven IOUs, and one independent power producer; computed and compared key financial ratios for TVA and the other eight reviewed the annual reports of the eight entities to determ"
1108,"ine what steps they have taken to financially prepare themselves for competition; interviewed TVA officials about their efforts to position themselves competitively, including their efforts to reduce debt, recover the costs of their capital assets, and recover stranded costs, and analyzed data on the future market price of power. The ratios we used in our comparison were computed as follows: The ratio of financing costs to revenue was calculated by dividing financing costs by operating revenue for the fisca"
1109,"l year. The financing costs include interest expense on short-term and long-term debt, payments on appropriations (TVA only), and preferred and common stock dividends (IOUs only). Note that preferred and common stock dividends were included in the IOUs’ financing costs to reflect the difference in the capital structure of these entities and TVA. The ratio of fixed financing costs to revenue was calculated by dividing financing costs less common stock dividends by operating revenue for the fiscal year. Commo"
1110,"n stock dividends were excluded from the IOUs’ financing costs because, since they are not contractual obligations that must be paid, they are not fixed costs. The ratio of net cash from operations to expenditures for PP&E and common stock dividends was calculated by dividing net cash from operations by expenditures for PP&E and common stock dividends for the fiscal year. Net cash from operations represents the cash received from customers minus the cash paid for operating expenses. Thus, net cash from oper"
1111,"ations represents the cash available for expenditures for PP&E, common stock dividends (IOUs only), and other investing and financing transactions. Again, we included common stock dividends in the IOUs ratios to reflect the difference in cash flow requirements for these entities and TVA. Preferred stock dividends were not included because they come out of operating revenues and thus are already reflected in the net cash figure. Because these data were not available for all entities, we excluded the effect o"
1112,"f capital assets acquired through acquisition. The ratio of accumulated depreciation and amortization to gross PP&E was calculated by dividing accumulated depreciation and amortization by gross PP&E at fiscal year-end. The ratio of deferred assets to gross PP&E was calculated by dividing deferred assets by gross PP&E at fiscal year-end. Deferred assets include construction in progress and for TVA only, its deferred nuclear units. Deferred nuclear units are included for TVA because TVA treats them as constru"
1113,"ction in progress (i.e., not depreciated). For comparison purposes, we selected the major IOUs that border on TVA’s service area because industry experts told us that due to the high cost of transmitting electricity, TVA’s competition would most likely come from IOUs located close to its service area. However, to represent the changing structure of the electricity industry, we included one large independent power producer. We did not include any publicly owned utilities in our analysis because the publicly "
1114,"owned utilities that provide electricity in the states served by our IOU comparison group generally only distribute but do not generate electricity. The IOUs used in our comparisons include (1) American Electric Power, (2) Carolina Power & Light, (3) Dominion Resources, (4) Duke Power, (5) Entergy, (6) LG&E Energy Corporation, and (7) Southern Company. The independent power producer was AES Corporation. To obtain information on various issues facing utilities in a restructuring industry, we reviewed documen"
1115,"ts from the Energy Information Administration (EIA) and the annual reports of TVA and the IOUs. We also spoke with the organization that represents TVA’s distributors to understand their concerns about TVA’s future competitiveness. In addition, we contacted financial analysts to identify the criteria they use to evaluate the financial condition of electric utilities. To identify the link between TVA’s debt and its potential stranded costs, we interviewed industry experts at the Federal Energy Regulatory Com"
1116,"mission, Edison Electric Institute (EEI), and CBO on the options other utilities have pursued to recover stranded costs; reviewed EIA documents pertaining to how stranded costs have been dealt with in the states that have restructured; questioned TVA officials on TVA’s plans for mitigating, calculating, and recovering potential stranded costs; and analyzed TVA’s contracts to determine whether TVA has contractually relieved its customers of any obligation to pay for stranded costs. To determine whether TVA h"
1117,"as calculated stranded costs that could potentially be assessed against it distributors, and if so, the methodology used, we questioned TVA officials on whether they had calculated potential stranded costs for any of its distributors and obtained information on the methodology TVA used to calculate potential stranded costs for the two distributors who informed TVA of their intent to leave its system. To identify the options for recovering any potential stranded costs at TVA, we obtained and analyzed informa"
1118,"tion from EIA, EEI, and CBO regarding the mechanisms for stranded cost recovery that have been used in states that have restructured their electricity industries and interviewed FERC officials and reviewed FERC documents pertaining to stranded cost recovery. We conducted our review from April 2000 through January 2001 in accordance with generally accepted government auditing standards. To the extent practical, we used audited financial statement data in performing our analyses, or reconciled the data we use"
1119,"d to audited financial statements; however, we were not able to do so in all cases and we did not verify the accuracy of all the data we obtained and used in our analyses. Information on TVA’s debt reduction, deferred asset recovery and projection of the future market price of power was based on TVA’s anticipated changes to the 10-year plan at the time of our review. During the course of our work, we contacted the following organizations. Congressional Budget Office, Department of Energy’s Energy Informatio"
1120,"n Administration, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Office of Management and Budget, and Tennessee Valley Authority. Moody’s Investors Service, New York, New York, and Standard & Poor’s, New York, New York. Tennessee Valley Public Power Association, Chattanooga, Tennessee. Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board, Washington, D.C., Edison Electric Institute, Washington, D.C., and Standard & Poor’s DRI, Lexington, Massachusetts. In the states that have restructured their electricity industries, there "
1121,"have been three commonly used mechanisms to mitigate stranded costs. These mitigation measures can be employed either before or during restructuring. Depending on the approval of state regulators, utilities have the following options: Securitization − Under securitization, state restructuring legislation authorizes a utility to receive the right to a stream of income from ratepayers, such as a competitive transition charge. The utility turns over that right to a state bank for cash, thus effectively refinan"
1122,"cing present debt and trading a regulated income stream for a lump sum of money. The state bank issues debt (i.e., sells bonds) secured by future customer payments or the competitive transition charge on customers' bills. The benefits from securitization stem from lower financing costs − the state bonds generally are free from state tax and have a higher rating than the utility, thus reducing interest expense. Therefore, the customer surcharge required to pay off the bonds is less than the charge that would"
1123," be necessary to produce the same amount of money had the utility issued the bonds itself. Mitigation before restructuring − With this option, regulators allow a utility to take steps to reduce potential stranded costs before full restructuring is implemented, including allowing accelerated depreciation. To the extent a utility is permitted to mitigate potential stranded costs, customers benefit. Mandatory asset divestiture − Requiring a utility to divest itself of generating assets produces revenue that ca"
1124,"n be used to recover potential stranded costs, potentially benefiting all customers. When a utility sells its assets, it can use the cash to reduce debt. At the same time, it no longer has to recover the cost of those assets, making its power potentially more competitive. However, it also must now purchase power and is thereby subject to market risk. In addition, proceeds from the sale are assumed to cover the book value of the asset; if not, potential stranded costs remain. Also, asset divestiture affects "
1125,"stockholders; to the extent a utility receives cash in excess of book value, stockholders benefit. In addition to the individual named above, Richard Cambosos, Jeff Jacobson, Joseph D. Kile, Mary Merrill, Donald R. Neff, Patricia B. Petersen, and Maria Zacharias made key contributions to this report. The first copy of each GAO report is free. Additional copies of reports are $2 each. A check or money order should be made out to the Superintendent of Documents. VISA and MasterCard credit cards are accepted, "
1126,"also. Orders for 100 or more copies to be mailed to a single address are discounted 25 percent. Orders by mail: U.S. General Accounting Office P.O. Box 37050 Washington, DC 20013 Orders by visiting: Room 1100 700 4th St. NW (corner of 4th and G Sts. NW) U.S. General Accounting Office Washington, DC Orders by phone: (202) 512-6000 fax: (202) 512-6061 TDD (202) 512-2537 Each day, GAO issues a list of newly available reports and testimony. To receive facsimile copies of the daily list or any list from the past"
1127," 30 days, please call (202) 512-6000 using a touchtone phone. A recorded menu will provide information on how to obtain these lists. Web site: http://www.gao.gov/fraudnet/fraudnet.htm e-mail: fraudnet@gao.gov 1-800-424-5454 (automated answering system)"
1128,"The federal government buys a myriad of goods and services from contractors. Federal agency acquisitions must be conducted in accordance with a set of statutes and regulations designed to accomplish several objectives, including full and open competition and various social and economic goals, such as encouraging small business participation. In the late 1980s and early 1990s, some became convinced that the federal procurement system had become complex, unwieldy, and overwrought with tension between the basi"
1129,"c goals of efficiency and fairness because of a proliferation of requirements governing almost every aspect of the acquisition process. In this environment, there were concerns about the government's ability to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the commercial marketplace. In response to these concerns, Congress enacted two major pieces of reform legislation, FASA and Clinger-Cohen, aimed at creating a more efficient and responsive federal acquisition system. Concerns remain about whether t"
1130,"he changes brought about by acquisition reform during the 1990s have come at the expense of placing small business at a disadvantage. The federal procurement process underwent many legislative and administrative changes during the 1990s, some of which have the potential to affect the ability of small businesses to obtain federal contracts. Other changes occurred during this time, such as reductions in the amount the government spent on goods and services and the size of its acquisition workforce, which agen"
1131,"cy officials believe have also encouraged procurement streamlining. These changes included the use of certain contract vehicles, such as MACs. In addition, reforms have modified the dollar range of contracts that are reserved for small businesses and encouraged the use of purchase cards, which are similar to corporate credit cards, for the use of certain purchases. Some organizations that represent small businesses are concerned that these changes could potentially erode the ability of small businesses to r"
1132,"eceive federal contracts. At the same time that acquisition reform legislation was enacted, other factors changed how much the federal government bought as well as the way it buys goods and services. During the 1990s, the federal government decreased the amount spent on goods and services and downsized the acquisition workforce. The total amount of goods and services that the government purchased, including those bought with purchase cards, declined by about 7 percent from an inflation-adjusted $224 billion"
1133," in fiscal year 1993 to $209 billion in fiscal year 1999. Consequently, all businesses had to compete for a reduced total of federal contract expenditures. Figure 2 shows the trend in total federal procurement expenditures during this period. Federal agencies also reduced their acquisition workforce personnel from 165,739 in fiscal year 1990 to 128,649 in fiscal year 1998, or approximately 22 percent, during this time, with many of these reductions taking place at the Department of Defense (DOD). According "
1134,"to agency officials, contracting officials have sought ways to streamline procurement practices within the applicable statutes and regulations partly as a result of these workforce reductions; this includes the use of previously authorized contracting vehicles such as blanket purchase agreements (BPA), indefinite-delivery indefinite-quantity (IDIQ) contracts, and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Appendix I provides a description of these contract vehicles. Contract bundling is an acquisition practice "
1135,"that received a lot of attention in the 1990s and is often associated with but, in fact, is not actually contained in acquisition reform legislation enacted during this period. Federal agencies combine existing contracts into fewer contracts as a means of streamlining as well as reducing procurement and contract administration costs, a practice generally referred to as “contract consolidation.” A subset of consolidated contracts is “bundled contracts” that the Small Business Reauthorization Act of 1997 defi"
1136,"nes as the consolidation of two or more procurement requirements for goods or services previously provided or performed under separate, smaller contracts into a solicitation of offers for a single contract that is likely to be unsuitable for award to a small business concern due to the diversity, size, or specialized nature of the elements of the the aggregate dollar value of the anticipated award; the geographic dispersion of contract performance sites; or any combination of these three criteria. This act "
1137,"requires each federal agency, to the maximum extent practicable, to (1) promote participation of small businesses by structuring its contracting requirements to facilitate competition by and among small businesses and (2) avoid the unnecessary and unjustified bundling of contracts that are likely to be unsuitable for small business participation as prime contractors. Federal policy has also encouraged the use of governmentwide commercial purchase cards for micropurchases. The purchase card, issued to a broa"
1138,"d range of authorized agency personnel to acquire and pay for goods and services, is similar in nature to a corporate credit card and is the preferred method for purchases of $2,500 or less. Some organizations that represent small businesses believe that the purchase card makes it easier for government personnel to make purchases from sources other than small businesses because that may be more convenient for the purchaser. Small businesses, as a group, have received the legislatively mandated goal for fede"
1139,"ral contract expenditures each fiscal year from 1993 to 1999. Between fiscal years 1993 and 1997, when the legislative goal was at least 20 percent, small businesses received between 24 and 25 percent of total federal contract expenditures. In both fiscal years 1998 and 1999, when the goal increased to 23 percent, small businesses received 23 percent of total federal contract expenditures. Focusing on expenditures for new contracts worth over $25,000, our analysis shows that small businesses have received b"
1140,"etween 25 and 28 percent of these expenditures during this period. In addition, focusing on the various categories of goods and services that the federal government purchases, small businesses received a higher share in fiscal year 1999 of expenditures in new contracts for most categories of goods and services than they did in fiscal year 1993. Several contract vehicles accounted for about one quarter of all governmentwide expenditures for contracts over $25,000 in fiscal year 1999, and small businesses rec"
1141,"eived between 26 and 55 percent of expenditures for these contract vehicles in that year. We could not determine the amount or impact of contract bundling or the impact of the increased use of government purchase cards on small businesses. Although FASA requires that contracts over $2,500 up to $100,000 generally be reserved exclusively for small businesses, we could not determine the amount of expenditures for these contracts because, in some cases, information is reported to FPDC on contracts together wit"
1142,"h modifications. SBA and FPDC data indicate that federal agencies, as a whole, have met their annual governmentwide small business procurement goal from fiscal years 1993 to 1999. This legislative goal increased from at least 20 percent of total federal contract expenditures to 23 percent effective fiscal year 1998. Between fiscal years 1993 and 1997, when the legislative goal was at least 20 percent, small businesses received between 24 and 25 percent of total federal contract expenditures. In fiscal years"
1143," 1998 and 1999, when the legislative goal increased to 23 percent, small businesses received 23 percent of total federal contract expenditures. Figure 3 shows the share of total federal contract expenditures going to small businesses for this period. Under the Small Business Act, SBA has authority to prescribe a method to measure the participation of small businesses in federal procurement. In calculating the actual achievement of small business procurement goals for individual federal agencies, SBA exclude"
1144,"s certain categories of procurements from the base, or denominator. SBA has identified several categories of procurements that are excluded from the base because SBA officials believe that small businesses do not have a reasonable opportunity to compete for them, including (1) foreign military sales; (2) procurement awarded and performed outside the United States; (3) purchases from mandatory sources of supplies as listed in the Federal Acquisition Regulation; and (4) purchases for specific programs from th"
1145,"e Departments of State, Transportation, and the Treasury. SBA's Office of Advocacy disagrees with SBA's approach of excluding categories of procurements in establishing the base. Adding back the categories of procurement that SBA excluded, the Office of Advocacy reported that small businesses received about 21 percent of total federal procurement in fiscal year 1998 (rather than the 23 percent that SBA reported) and that, therefore, the governmentwide goal for small business procurement was not met in fisca"
1146,"l year 1998. Some organizations that represent small businesses have expressed concerns that small businesses are at a disadvantage when competing for new federal contracts. Therefore, we analyzed the share of expenditures for new contracts going to small businesses. These data do not include modifications to existing contracts, which account for approximately half of all governmentwide procurement expenditures during this time. Our analysis of FPDS data of new contract expenditures shows that small busines"
1147,"ses have received between 25 and 28 percent of such expenditures for contracts worth more than $25,000 between fiscal years 1993 and 1999. Figure 4 shows the results of our analysis. In calculating the share of total expenditures on new contracts going to small businesses from fiscal years 1993 to 1999, we used FPDC data on expenditures for new contracts worth more than $25,000 and did not exclude the types of expenditures that SBA excludes to calculate the small business procurement goal. As noted in figur"
1148,"e 2, the federal government has been spending less money on goods and services since fiscal year 1993. The only categories of goods and services that experienced increases in governmentwide purchases on new contracts worth more than $25,000 between fiscal years 1993 and 1999 were real property and other services. Despite this overall decline in contract purchases, small businesses received a higher share in fiscal year 1999 than in fiscal year 1993 of expenditures on new contracts worth $25,000 or more than"
1149," for 5 of the 8 categories of goods and services of government procurement: equipment, research and development, architect and engineering, automatic data processing services, and other services. Figure 5 shows governmentwide trends for purchases under new contracts of goods and services worth more than $25,000 and the share of these purchases going to small businesses. We analyzed FPDS data on the governmentwide use of certain contract vehicles for contracts over $25,000, including those that became popula"
1150,"r during the 1990s. We found that these vehicles represent a small but growing share of federal procurement expenditures. Because FPDS only captures data for some of these contract vehicles, we had to limit our analysis to MACs, IDIQs, BPAs, and GSA schedules. Expenditures for the four types of contract vehicles we analyzed represented 25 percent of federal procurement expenditures on contracts over $25,000 in fiscal year 1999, compared with 16 percent in fiscal year 1994. Small businesses received 32 perce"
1151,"nt of expenditures for these contract vehicles in fiscal year 1999 compared with 24 percent in fiscal year 1994. For each of the four types of contract vehicles in our analysis, the share of expenditures going to small businesses was between 26 and 55 percent in fiscal year 1999, depending on the type of contract vehicle. For example, expenditures going to small businesses for MACs increased from $524 million in fiscal year 1994, or 8 percent of all expenditures for MACs, to $2 billion in fiscal year 1999, "
1152,"or 26 percent of all expenditures for MACs. Expenditures going to small businesses for IDIQs from fiscal years 1994 to 1999 remained relatively stable, near $7 billion. The percentage of total expenditures for IDIQs going to small businesses increased from 24 percent of total expenditures for IDIQs in fiscal year 1994 to 28 percent in 1999. The small business share of GSA schedules increased from 27 percent in fiscal year 1994 to 36 percent in fiscal year 1999, from $523 million to $3 billion. Finally, the "
1153,"small business share of BPAs fell from 97 percent in fiscal year 1994 to about 55 percent in fiscal year 1999, although the expenditures increased for small businesses from about $141 million in fiscal year 1994 to about $2 billion in fiscal year 1999. In conducting a review of contract bundling in 2000, we found that there are only limited governmentwide data on the extent of contract bundling and its actual effect on small businesses. Federal agencies do not currently report information on contract bundli"
1154,"ng to FPDC; therefore, FPDC does not have data on this topic. Our review of consolidated contracts worth $12.4 billion at 3 procurement centers showed that the number of contractors and the contract dollars were generally reduced due to consolidation as agencies sought to streamline procurement and reduce its associated administrative costs. SBA determined that the consolidation of the contracts we reviewed did not necessarily constitute bundling. In fact, 2 of the largest consolidated contracts involved on"
1155,"ly large businesses and the remaining 11 consolidated contracts were awarded to small businesses. We analyzed the total amount of governmentwide purchase-card expenditures for fiscal years 1993 to 1999 and found that in fiscal year 1999 such expenditures totaled $10 billion, or about 5 percent, of all federal procurement purchases. As figure 6 shows, these purchases have steadily increased since 1993, when the total amount bought with purchase cards was $527 million. These data include expenditures for all "
1156,"purchase-card transactions, both under and over $2,500. FASA permits purchases for goods or services up to $2,500 from any qualified suppliers. Since FPDS does not collect detailed data on purchase- card expenditures, we could not determine what share of such governmentwide expenditures are going to small businesses. We requested comments on a draft of this report from the Administrator of SBA, the Director of OMB, and the Administrator of GSA. SBA's Chief Operating Officer provided written comments in conc"
1157,"urrence with our report. She pointed out that preliminary data for fiscal year 2000 show that federal agencies are finding it more difficult to meet the legislative goal of ensuring that 23 percent of the value of federal prime contracts go to small businesses. We did not include data for fiscal year 2000 in our review because these data are preliminary. Another area of concern was that since detailed data on purchase-card expenditures are not included in the FPDS database, trend analyses of these expenditu"
1158,"res were not included in our report. As we note in our report, purchase-card expenditures have increased, but data are not available to determine the share of these purchases going to small businesses. In addition, SBA's Chief Operating Officer made several technical comments that we have reflected in this report, as appropriate. Officials from GSA's Offices of Enterprise Development and Governmentwide Policy provided technical comments that we have addressed in this report, as appropriate. OMB had no comme"
1159,"nts on our draft report. The comments we received from SBA are in appendix III. To identify procurement changes that could affect small business contractors, we reviewed FASA, the Clinger-Cohen Act, the Small Business Reauthorization Act of 1997, and the Federal Acquisition Regulation. We also identified other changes that occurred during the 1990s that might have an effect on small businesses by interviewing agency officials and representatives of industry associations, and by reviewing agency documents. W"
1160,"e met with officials from GSA, SBA, OMB's Office of Federal Procurement Policy (OFPP), and the Procurement Executives Council. We also met with representatives of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Small Business Legislative Council, and Independent Office Products and Furniture Dealers Association. To determine the trends in federal procurement from small businesses, we analyzed data from the Federal Procurement Data Center's (FPDC) Federal Procurement Report for fiscal years 1993 through 1999 and other data we"
1161," requested from FPDC and SBA for those same years. FPDC administers the Federal Procurement Data System (FPDS) within GSA. Since FPDC relies on federal agencies to report their procurement information, these data are only as reliable, accurate, and complete as the agencies report. In 1998, FPDC conducted an accuracy audit and reported that the average rate of accurate reporting in the FPDS database was 96 percent. Our analyses focused on total contract expenditures for federal procurement and the percentage"
1162," of expenditures going to small businesses for new contracts and for certain contract vehicles. Unless otherwise noted, all expenditures were adjusted for inflation and represent constant fiscal year 1999 dollars. We conducted our review between March and October 2000 in accordance with generally accepted government auditing standards. A detailed discussion of our objectives, scope, and methodology is presented in appendix II. As agreed with your office, unless you publicly announce its contents earlier, we"
1163," plan no further distribution of this report for 30 days. At that point, copies of this report will be sent to appropriate congressional committees and other interested Members of Congress; the Administrator of the Small Business Administration; the Administrator of the General Services Administration; the Director of the Office of Management and Budget; and other interested parties. We will also make copies available to others on request. Staff acknowledgements are listed in appendix IV. If you or your sta"
1164,"ff have any questions about this report, please contact me at (202) 512-8984 or Hilary Sullivan at (214) 777-5652. Indefinite-Delivery, Indefinite-Quantity Contract: This type of contract provides for an indefinite quantity, within stated limits, of goods or services during a fixed period of time. Agencies place separate task or delivery orders for individual requirements that specify the quantity and delivery terms associated with each order. The Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) expresses a preference "
1165,"for multiple awards of these contracts, which allows orders to be placed using a streamlined, commercial style selection process where consideration is limited to the contract awardees. The competition between the multiple awardees is designed to encourage better prices and responses than if the agency were negotiating with a single contractor. Contractors are to be afforded a fair opportunity to be considered for award of task and delivery orders but cannot generally protest the award of such orders. Indef"
1166,"inite-delivery, indefinite-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Federal Supply Schedules: Under the schedule program, GSA enters into indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity contracts with commercial firms to provide commercial goods and services governmentwide at stated prices for given periods of time. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements that specify the quantity and delivery terms associated with each order, and the contr"
1167,"actor delivers products or services directly to the agency. The program is designed to provide federal agencies with a simplified process for obtaining millions of commonly used commercial supplies and services at prices associated with volume buying. The program consists of single award schedules with one supplier and multiple award schedules, in which GSA awards contracts to multiple companies supplying comparable services and products, often at varying prices. When agency requirements are to be satisfied"
1168," through the use of multiple award schedules, the small business provisions (such as the exclusive reservation for small businesses for contracts over $2,500 up to $100,000) of the FAR do not apply. Blanket Purchase Agreement: A simplified method of filling anticipated repetitive needs for supplies or services by establishing “charge accounts” with qualified sources of supply, and may include federal supply schedule contractors. Under such an agreement, the contractor and the agency agree to contract clause"
1169,"s applying to future orders between the parties during its term. Future orders would incorporate, by reference or attachment, clauses covering purchase limitations, authorized individuals, itemized lists of supplies or services furnished, date of delivery or shipments, billing procedures, and discounts. Under the FAR, the existence of a blanket purchase agreement does not justify purchasing from only one source or avoiding small business preferences. Our objectives were to identify (1) provisions in acquisi"
1170,"tion reform legislation enacted in the 1990s and other changes in procurement taking place during this time that could affect small business contractors and (2) trends that might indicate possible shifts in the ability of small businesses to obtain federal contracts in the 1990s. To achieve our first objective, we analyzed several pieces of legislation enacted in the 1990s, federal acquisition regulations, governmentwide procurement data, and interviewed federal officials at several agencies. We examined th"
1171,"e Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act of 1994 (FASA), the Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996, the Small Business Reauthorization Act of 1997, and the Federal Acquisition Regulation. We analyzed governmentwide procurement data reported by GSA's Federal Procurement Data Center (FPDC) and data on the governmentwide acquisition workforce reported by GSA's Federal Acquisition Institute in its Report on the Federal Acquisition Workforce for fiscal years 1991 and 1998. We interviewed officials at GSA, OFPP, SBA, and the P"
1172,"rocurement Executives Council. We also interviewed representatives of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Small Business Legislative Council, and Independent Office Products and Furniture Dealers Association. To achieve our second objective, we gathered governmentwide data on federal procurement from FPDC and SBA for fiscal years 1993 through 1999. We could not determine the direct impact of legislative changes and other trends on small businesses because of the numerous concurrent factors and the insufficiency o"
1173,"f governmentwide data to directly measure the effect of these changes on small business contractors. Federal agencies report procurement data to FPDC in two categories, (1) contract awards of $25,000 or less each and (2) contract awards greater than $25,000. Each agency reports summary data on contracts worth $25,000 or less to FPDC and includes information such as type of contractor and procurement methods. Agencies report greater detail on each individual contract over $25,000 or more, including type of c"
1174,"ontract action, type of contractor, and product or service purchased. We analyzed aggregate data reported in FPDC's Federal Procurement Report for each of the years. We requested additional data from FPDC for contracts over $25,000 to include information on expenditures going to small businesses for new contracts; total expenditures going to small businesses, including for new contracts and contract modifications, for specific contract vehicles; and expenditures going to small businesses for new contracts f"
1175,"or all products and services. The data on new contracts that FPDC provided includes expenditures on original contract actions, as opposed to expenditures on modifications to existing contracts. FPDC categorizes all federal contract expenditures into eight broad categories of products and services. According to FPDC officials, FPDS is updated constantly as federal agencies report updated procurement information. The data we received from FPDC are as of July 2000. In addition, we analyzed the summary informat"
1176,"ion on government purchase- card transactions from the Federal Procurement Report for each year. We also collected data from SBA and FPDC on the achievement of the governmentwide federal procurement goal for small businesses. The SBA data on the achievement of this goal for fiscal years 1993 through 1997 are from The State of Small Business. Because the most recent version The State of Small Business was published in fiscal year 1997, we used FPDC data published in its annual Federal Procurement Report on t"
1177,"he achievement of the legislative goal for fiscal years 1998 and 1999. As indicated earlier, SBA began using FPDS data to calculate the achievement of the small business legislative goal as of fiscal year 1998. Although FASA requires that contracts over $2,500 up to $100,000 be exclusively reserved for small businesses, we could not determine the amount of expenditures or share going to small businesses for these contracts because, in some cases, information is reported to FPDC on contracts commingled with "
1178,"modifications. Unless otherwise noted, we adjusted all dollar amounts using a gross domestic product price index from the Bureau of Economic Analysis using fiscal year 1999 as the base year. We did not independently verify FPDC or SBA data. FPDC relies on agencies to report their procurement information. Therefore, data are only as reliable, accurate, and complete as the agencies report. In 1998, however, FPDC conducted an accuracy audit of some of its data elements and reported that the average rate of acc"
1179,"urate reporting in the FPDS database was 96 percent. We performed our work at SBA headquarters, OFPP, and GSA headquarters. We conducted our review between March and October 2000 in accordance with generally accepted government auditing standards. Jason Bair, William Chatlos, James Higgins, Maria Santos, Adam Vodraska, and Wendy Wilson made key contributions to this report. The first copy of each GAO report is free. Additional copies of reports are $2 each. A check or money order should be made out to the S"
1180,"uperintendent of Documents. VISA and MasterCard credit cards are accepted, also. Orders for 100 or more copies to be mailed to a single address are discounted 25 percent. Orders by mail: U.S. General Accounting Office P.O. Box 37050 Washington, DC 20013 Orders by visiting: Room 1100 700 4th St. NW (corner of 4th and G Sts. NW) U.S. General Accounting Office Washington, DC Orders by phone: (202) 512-6000 fax: (202) 512-6061 TDD (202) 512-2537 Each day, GAO issues a list of newly available reports and testimo"
1181,"ny. To receive facsimile copies of the daily list or any list from the past 30 days, please call (202) 512-6000 using a touchtone phone. A recorded menu will provide information on how to obtain these lists. Web site: http://www.gao.gov/fraudnet/fraudnet.htm e-mail: fraudnet@gao.gov 1-800-424-5454 (automated answering system)"
1182,"In June 1997, we reported on the results of our interviews with state WIC officials in 8 states that had unspent federal funds in fiscal year 1995 and 2 states that did not have unspent funds that year. These state officials identified a variety of reasons for having unspent federal WIC funds that were returned to the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Food and Nutrition Service (FNS) for reallocation. In fiscal year 1996, the states returned about $121.6 million, or about 3.3 percent, of that year’s $"
1183,"3.7 billion WIC grant for reallocation to the states in the next fiscal year. Some of the reasons cited by the WIC directors for not spending all available funds related to the structure of the WIC program. For example, the federal grant is the only source of funds for the program in most states. Some of these states prohibit agency expenditures that exceed their available funding. As a result, WIC directors reported that they must be cautious not to overspend their WIC grant. Because WIC grants made to som"
1184,"e states are so large, even a low underspending rate can result in millions of returned grant dollars. For example, in fiscal year 1995, California returned almost $16 million in unspent WIC funds, which represented about 3 percent of its $528 million federal grant. Unlike California, New York State had no unspent grant funds in fiscal year 1995. New York was one of 12 states that supplemented its federal WIC grant with state funds that year and hence did not have to be as cautious in protecting against ove"
1185,"rspending its federal grant. Overall, the group of states that supplemented their WIC grants in fiscal year 1995 returned a smaller percentage of their combined WIC funds than did the states that did not supplement their federal grants. States also had unspent federal funds because the use of vouchers to distribute benefits made it difficult for states to determine program costs until the vouchers were redeemed and processed. Two features of the voucher distribution method can contribute to the states’ diff"
1186,"iculty in determining program costs. First, some portion of the benefits issued as vouchers may not be used, thereby reducing projected food costs. Participants may not purchase all of the food items specified on the voucher or not redeem the voucher at all. Second, because of the time it takes to process vouchers, states may find after the end of the fiscal year that their actual food costs were lower than projected. For example, most states do not know the cost of the vouchers issued for August and Septem"
1187,"ber benefits until after the fiscal year ends because program regulations require states to give participants 30 days to use a voucher and retailers 60 days after receiving the voucher to submit it for payment. The difficulty in projecting food costs in a timely manner can be exacerbated in some states that issue participants 3 months of vouchers at a time to reduce crowded clinic conditions. In such states, vouchers for August benefits could be provided as early as June but not submitted for payment until "
1188,"the end of October. Other reasons for states having unspent WIC funds related to specific circumstances that affect program operations within individual states. For example, in Texas the installation of a new computer system used to certify WIC eligibility and issue WIC food vouchers contributed to the state’s having unspent funds of about $6.8 million in fiscal year 1996. According to the state WIC director, the computer installation temporarily reduced the amount of time that clinic staff had to certify a"
1189,"nd serve new clients because they had to spend time instead learning new software and operating procedures. As a result, they were unable to certify and serve a number of eligible individuals and did not spend the associated grant funds. In Florida, a hiring freeze contributed to the state’s having unspent funds of about $7.7 million in fiscal year 1995. According to the state WIC director, although federal WIC funds were available to increase the number of WIC staff at the state and local agency level, sta"
1190,"te programs were under a hiring freeze that affected all programs, including WIC. The hiring freeze hindered the state’s ability to hire the staff needed to serve the program’s expanding caseload. Having unspent federal WIC funds did not necessarily indicate a lack of need for program benefits. WIC directors in some states with fiscal year 1995 unspent funds reported that more eligible individuals could have been served by WIC had it not been for the reasons related to the program’s structure and/or state-s"
1191,"pecific situations or circumstances. On the basis of our nationwide survey of randomly selected local WIC agencies, we reported in October 1997 that these agencies have implemented a variety of strategies to increase the accessibility of their clinics for working women. The most frequently cited strategies—used by every agency—are scheduling appointments instead of taking participants on a first-come, first-served basis and allowing other persons to pick up participants’ WIC vouchers. Scheduling appointment"
1192,"s reduces participants’ waiting time at the clinic and makes more efficient use of the agency staff’s time. Allowing other persons, such as baby-sitters and family members, to pick up the food vouchers for participants can reduce the number of visits to the clinic by working women. Another strategy to increase participation by working women used by almost 90 percent of local agencies was issuing food vouchers for 2 or 3 months. As California state officials pointed out, issuing vouchers every 2 months, inst"
1193,"ead of monthly, to participants who are not at medical risk reduces the number of visits to the clinic. Three-fourths of the local WIC agencies had some provision for lunch hour appointments, which allows some working women to take care of their visit during their lunch break. Other actions to increase WIC participation by working women included reducing the time spent at clinic visits. We estimated that about 66 percent of local WIC agencies have taken steps to expedite clinic visits for working women. For"
1194," example, a local agency in New York State allows working women who must return to work to go ahead of others in the clinic. The director of a local WIC agency in Pennsylvania allows working women to send in their paperwork before they visit, thereby reducing the time spent at the clinic. The Kansas state WIC agency generally requires women to participate in the program in the county where they reside, but it will allow working women to participate in the county where they work when it is more convenient fo"
1195,"r them. Other strategies adopted by some local WIC agencies include mailing vouchers to working women under special circumstances, thereby eliminating the need for them to visit the clinic (about 60 percent of local agencies); offering extended clinic hours of operation beyond the routine workday (about 20 percent of local agencies offer early morning hours); and locating clinics at or near work sites, including various military installations (about 5 percent of local agencies). Our survey found that about "
1196,"76 percent of the local WIC agency directors believed that their clinics are reasonably accessible for working women. In reaching this conclusion, the directors considered their clinic’s hours of operation, the amount of time that participants wait for service, and the ease with which participants are able to get appointments. Despite the widespread use of strategies to increase accessibility, 9 percent of WIC directors believe accessibility is still a problem for working women. In our discussions with thes"
1197,"e directors, the most frequently cited reason for rating accessibility as moderately or very difficult was the inability to operate during evenings or on Saturday because of lack of staff, staff’s resistance to working schedules beyond the routine workday, and/or the lack of safety in the area around the clinic after dark or on weekends. Our survey also identified several factors not directly related to the accessibility of clinic services that serve to limit participation by working women. The factors most"
1198," frequently cited related to how working women view the program. Specifically, directors reported that some working women do not participate because they (1) lose interest in the program’s benefits as their income increases, (2) perceive a stigma attached to receiving WIC benefits, or (3) think the program is limited to those women who do not work. With respect to the first issue, 65 percent of the directors reported that working women lose interest in WIC benefits as their income rises. For example, one ag"
1199,"ency director reported that women gain a sense of pride when their income rises and they no longer want to participate in the program. Concerning the second issue, the stigma some women associate with WIC—how their participation in the program makes them appear to their friends and co-workers—is another significant factor limiting participation, according to about 57 percent of the local agency directors. Another aspect of the perceived stigma associated with WIC participation is related to the so-called “g"
1200,"rocery store experience.” The use of WIC vouchers to purchase food in grocery stores can cause confusion and delays for both the participant-shopper and the store clerk at the check-out counter. For example, Texas requires its WIC participants to buy the cheapest brand of milk, evaporated milk, and cheese available in the store. Texas also requires participants to buy the lowest-cost 46-ounce fluid or 12-ounce frozen fruit juices from an approved list of types (orange, grapefruit, orange/grapefruit, purple "
1201,"grape, pineapple, orange/pineapple, and apple) and/or specific brands. In comparing the cost of WIC-approved items, participants must also consider such things as weekly store specials and cost per ounce in order to purchase the lowest-priced items. While these restrictions may lower the dollar amount that the state pays for WIC foods, it may also make food selections more confusing for participants. According to Texas WIC officials, participants and cashiers often have difficulty determining which products"
1202," have the lowest price. Consequently, a delay in the check-out process may result in unwanted attention for the WIC participant. Finally, more than half of the directors indicated that a major factor limiting participation is that working women are not aware that they are eligible to participate in WIC. Furthermore, local agency officials in California and Texas said that WIC participants who were not working when they entered the program but who later go to work often assume that they are then no longer el"
1203,"igible for WIC and therefore drop out of the program. In September 1997, we reported that the states have used a variety of initiatives to control WIC costs. According to the WIC agency directors in the 50 states and the District of Columbia we surveyed, two practices in particular are saving millions of dollars. These two practices are (1) contracting with manufacturers to obtain rebates on WIC foods in addition to infant formula and (2) limiting authorized food selections by, for example, requiring partic"
1204,"ipants to select brands of foods that have the lowest cost. With respect to rebates, nine state agencies received $6.2 million in rebates in fiscal year 1996 through individual or multistate contracts for two WIC-approved foods—infant cereal and/or infant fruit juices. Four of these state agencies and seven other state agencies—a total of 11 states—reported that they were considering, or were in the process of, expanding their use of rebates to foods other than infant formula. In May 1997, Delaware, one of "
1205,"the 11 states, joined the District of Columbia, Maryland, and West Virginia in a multistate rebate contract for infant cereal and juices. Another state, California, was the first state to expand its rebate program in March 1997 to include adult juices. California spends about $65 million annually on adult juice purchases. California’s WIC director told us that the state expects to collect about $12 million in annual rebates on the adult juices, thereby allowing approximately 30,000 more people to participat"
1206,"e in the program each month. With respect to placing limits on food selections, all of the 48 state WIC directors responding to our survey reported that their agencies imposed limits on one or more of the food items eligible for program reimbursement. The states may specify certain brands; limit certain types of foods, such as allowing the purchase of block but not sliced cheese; restrict container sizes; and require the selection of only the lowest-cost brands. However, some types of restrictions are more "
1207,"widely used than others. For example, 47 WIC directors reported that their states’ participants are allowed to choose only certain container or package sizes of one or more food items, but only 20 directors reported that their states require participants to purchase the lowest-cost brand for one or more food items. While all states have one or more food selection restrictions, 17 of the 48 WIC directors responding to our questionnaire reported that their states are considering the use of additional limits o"
1208,"n food selection to contain or reduce WIC costs. Separately or in conjunction with measures to contain food costs, we found that 39 state agencies have placed restrictions on their authorized retail outlets (food stores and pharmacies allowed to redeem WIC vouchers—commonly referred to as vendors) to hold down costs. For example, the prices for WIC food items charged by WIC vendors in Texas must not exceed by more than 8 percent the average prices charged by vendors doing a comparable dollar volume of busin"
1209,"ess in the same area. Once selected, authorized WIC vendors must maintain competitive prices. According to Texas WIC officials, the state does not limit the number of vendors that can participate in WIC. However, Texas’ selection criteria for approving a vendor excludes many stores from the program. In addition, 18 WIC directors reported that their states restrict the number of vendors allowed to participate in the program by using ratios of participants to vendors. For example, Delaware used a ratio of 200"
1210," participants per store in fiscal year 1997 to determine the total number of vendors that could participate in the program in each WIC service area. By limiting the number of vendors, states can more frequently monitor vendors and conduct compliance investigations to detect and remove vendors from the program who commit fraud or other serious program violations, according to federal and state WIC officials. A July 1995 report by USDA’s Office of Inspector General found that the annual loss to WIC as a resul"
1211,"t of vendor fraud in one state could exceed $3 million. The WIC directors in 2 of the 39 states that reported limiting the number of vendors indicated that they are planning to introduce additional vendor initiatives, such as selecting vendors on the basis of competitive food pricing. We also found that opportunities exist to substantially lower the cost of special infant formula. Special formula, unlike the regular formula provided by WIC, is provided to infants with special dietary needs or medical condit"
1212,ions. Cost savings may be achieved if the states purchase special infant formula at wholesale instead of retail prices. The monthly retail cost of these special formulas can be high—ranging in one state we surveyed from $540 to $900 for each infant. These high costs occur in part because vendors’ retail prices are much higher than the wholesale cost. Twenty-one states avoid paying retail prices by purchasing the special formula directly from the manufacturers and distributing it to participants. For example
1213,", Pennsylvania turned to the direct purchase of special infant formula to address the lack of availability and high cost of vendor-provided formulas. It established a central distribution warehouse for special formulas in August 1996 to serve the less than 1 percent of WIC infants in the state—about 400—who needed special formula in fiscal year 1996. The program is expected to save about $100,000 annually. Additional savings may be possible if these 21 states are able to reduce or eliminate the authorizatio"
1214,"n and monitoring costs of retail vendors and pharmacies that distribute only special infant formula. For example, by establishing its own central distribution warehouse, Pennsylvania plans to remove over 200 pharmacies from the program, resulting in significant administrative cost savings, according to the state WIC director. While the use of these cost containment practices could be expanded, our work found that a number of obstacles may discourage the states from adopting or expanding these practices. The"
1215,"se obstacles include problems that states have with existing program restrictions on how additional funds made available through cost containment initiatives can be used and resistance from the retail community when states attempt to establish selection requirements or limit retail stores participating in the program. First, FNS policy requires that during the grant year, any savings from cost containment accrue to the food portion of the WIC grant, thereby allowing the states to provide food benefits to ad"
1216,"ditional WIC applicants. None of the cost savings are automatically available to the states for support services, such as staffing, clinic facilities, voucher issuance sites, outreach, and other activities that are funded by WIC’s NSA (Nutrition Services and Administration) grants. These various support activities are needed to increase participation in the program, according to WIC directors. As a result, the states may not be able to serve more eligible persons or they may have to carry a substantial port"
1217,"ion of the program’s support costs until the federal NSA grant is adjusted for the increased participation level—a process that can take up to 2 years, according to the National Association of WIC Directors. FNS officials pointed out that provisions in the federal regulations allow the states that have increased participation to use a limited amount of their food grant funds for support activities. However, some states may be reluctant to use this option because, as one director told us, doing so may be per"
1218,"ceived as taking food away from babies. FNS and some state WIC officials told us that limiting the number of vendors in the program is an important aspect of containing WIC costs. However, they told us the retail community does not favor limits on the number of vendors that qualify to participate. Instead, the retail community favors the easing of restrictions on vendor eligibility thereby allowing more vendors that qualify to accept WIC vouchers. According to FNS officials, the amount that WIC spends for f"
1219,"ood would be substantially higher if stores with higher prices were authorized to participate in the program. To encourage the further implementation of WIC cost containment practices, we recommended in our September 1997 report that FNS work with the states to identify and implement strategies to reduce or eliminate such obstacles. These strategies could include modifying the policies and procedures that allow the states to use cost containment savings for the program’s support services and establishing re"
1220,gulatory guidelines for selecting vendors to participate in the program. FNS concurred with our findings and recommendations. We will continue to monitor the agency’s progress made in implementing strategies to reduce or eliminate obstacles to cost containment. Our survey also collected information on the practices that the states are using to ensure that program participants meet the program’s income and residency requirements. The states’ requirements for obtaining income documentation vary. Of the 48 WIC
1221," directors responding to our survey, 32 reported that their state agencies generally require applicants to provide documentation of income eligibility; 14 reported that their states did not require documentation and allowed applicants to self-declare their income; and 2 reported that income documentation procedures are determined by local WIC agencies. Of the 32 states requiring income documentation, 30 reported that their documentation requirement could be waived under certain conditions. Our review of sta"
1222,"te income documentation polices found that waiving an income documentation requirement can be routine. For example, we found that some states requiring documentation of income will waive the requirement and permit self-declaration of income if the applicants do not bring income documents to their certification meeting. While existing federal regulations allow the states to establish their own income documentation requirements for applicants, we are concerned that basing income eligibility on the applicants’"
1223," self-declarations of income may permit ineligible applicants to participate in WIC. However, the extent of this problem is unknown because there has not been a recent study of the number of program participants who are not eligible because of income. Information from a study that FNS has begun should enable that agency to determine whether changes in states’ requirements for income documentation are needed. Regarding residency requirements, we found that some states have not been requiring proof of residen"
1224,"cy and personal identification for program certification, as required by federal regulations. In our September 1997 report, we recommended that FNS take the necessary steps to ensure that state agencies require participants to provide identification and evidence that they reside in the states where they receive benefits. In February 1998, FNS issued a draft policy memorandum to its regional offices that is intended to stress the continuing importance of participant identification, residency, and income requ"
1225,"irements and procedures to ensure integrity in the certification and food instrument issuance processes. Also, at the request of FNS, we presented our review’s findings and recommendations at the EBT and Program Integrity Conference jointly sponsored by the National Association of WIC Directors and FNS in December 1997. The conference highlighted the need to reduce ineligible participation and explored improved strategies to validate participants’ income and residency eligibility. FNS requires the states to"
1226," operate a rebate program for infant formula. By negotiating rebates with manufacturers of infant formula purchased through WIC, the states greatly reduce their average per person food costs so that more people can be served. At the request of the Chairman of the House Budget Committee, we are currently reviewing the impacts that these rebates have had on non-WIC consumers of infant formula. Specifically, we will report on (1) how prices in the infant formula market changed for non-WIC purchasers and WIC ag"
1227,"encies after the introduction of sole-source rebates, (2) whether there is any evidence indicating that non-WIC purchasers of infant formula subsidized WIC purchases through the prices they paid, and (3) whether the significant cost savings for WIC agencies under sole source rebates for infant formula have implications for the use of rebates for other WIC products. Thank you again for the opportunity to appear before you today. We would be pleased to respond to any questions you may have. The first copy of "
1228,"each GAO report and testimony is free. Additional copies are $2 each. Orders should be sent to the following address, accompanied by a check or money order made out to the Superintendent of Documents, when necessary. VISA and MasterCard credit cards are accepted, also. Orders for 100 or more copies to be mailed to a single address are discounted 25 percent. U.S. General Accounting Office P.O. Box 37050 Washington, DC 20013 Room 1100 700 4th St. NW (corner of 4th and G Sts. NW) U.S. General Accounting Office"
1229," Washington, DC Orders may also be placed by calling (202) 512-6000 or by using fax number (202) 512-6061, or TDD (202) 512-2537. Each day, GAO issues a list of newly available reports and testimony. To receive facsimile copies of the daily list or any list from the past 30 days, please call (202) 512-6000 using a touchtone phone. A recorded menu will provide information on how to obtain these lists."
1230,"Since the early 1990s, increasing computer interconnectivity—most notably growth in the use of the Internet—has revolutionized the way that our government, our nation, and much of the world communicate and conduct business. The benefits have been enormous, but without proper safeguards in the form of appropriate information security, this widespread interconnectivity also poses significant risks to the government’s computer systems and the critical operations and infrastructures they support. In prior revie"
1231,"ws we have repeatedly identified weaknesses in almost all areas of information security controls at major federal agencies, including VA, and we have identified information security as a high risk area across the federal government since 1997. In July 2005, we reported that pervasive weaknesses in the 24 major agencies’ information security policies and practices threatened the integrity, confidentiality, and availability of federal information and information systems. As we reported, although federal agenc"
1232,"ies showed improvement in addressing information security, they also continued to have significant control weaknesses that put federal operations and assets at risk of inadvertent or deliberate misuse, financial information at risk of unauthorized modification or destruction, sensitive information at risk of inappropriate disclosure, and critical operations at risk of disruption. These weaknesses existed primarily because agencies had not yet fully implemented strong information security programs, as requir"
1233,"ed by the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA). The significance of these weaknesses led us to conclude in the audit of the federal government’s fiscal year 2005 financial statements that information security was a material weakness. Our audits also identified instances of similar types of weaknesses in nonfinancial systems. Weaknesses continued to be reported in each of the major areas of general controls: that is, the policies, procedures, and technical controls that apply to all or a large"
1234," segment of an entity’s information systems and help ensure their proper operation. To fully understand the significance of the weaknesses we identified, it is necessary to link them to the risks they present to federal operations and assets. Virtually all federal operations are supported by automated systems and electronic data, without which agencies would find it difficult, if not impossible, to carry out their missions and account for their resources. The following examples show the broad array of feder"
1235,"al operations and assets placed at risk by information security weaknesses: ● Resources, such as federal payments and collections, could be lost or stolen. ● Computer resources could be used for unauthorized purposes or to launch attacks on others. ● Personal information, such as taxpayer data, social security records, and medical records, and proprietary business information could be inappropriately disclosed, browsed, or copied for purposes of identity theft, industrial espionage, or other types of crime."
1236," ● Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. ● Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud, theft of assets, or disruption. ● Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents that result in diminished confidence in their ability to conduct operations and fulfill their fiduciary responsibilities. The potential disclosure of personal information raise identity theft and privacy concerns. Identity theft generally involv"
1237,"es the fraudulent use of another person’s identifying information— such as Social Security number, date of birth, or mother’s maiden name—to establish credit, run up debt, or take over existing financial accounts. According to identity theft experts, individuals whose identities have been stolen can spend months or years and thousands of dollars clearing their names. Some individuals have lost job opportunities, been refused loans, or even been arrested fo crimes they did not commit as a result of identity "
1238,"theft. The Feder Trade Commission (FTC) reported in 2005 that identity theft represented about 40 percent of all the consumer fraud complaints it received during each of the last 3 calendar years. Beyond the serious issues surrounding identity theft, the unauthorized disclosure of personal information also represents a breach of individuals’ privacy rights to have control over their own information and to be aware of who has access to this information. Federal agencies are subject to security and privacy la"
1239,"ws aimed in part at preventing security breaches, including breaches that could enable identity theft. FISMA is the primary l federal government; it also addresses the protection of personal n information in the context of securing federal agency informatio r and information systems. The act defines federal requirements fo securing information and information systems that support federalaw governing information security in the agency operations and assets. Under FISMA, agencies are requiredto provide suffic"
1240,"ient safeguards to cost-effectively protect their information and information systems from unauthorized access, use disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction, including controls necessary to preserve authorized restrictions on access and disclosure (and thus to protect personal privacy, among other things). The act requires each agency to develop, document, and implement an agencywide information security program to provide , security for the information and information systems that support the o"
1241,"perations and assets of the agency, including those provided or managed by another agency, contractor, or other source. FISMA describes a comprehensive information security pr including the following elements: periodic assessments of the risk an result from the unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of information or information systems; d magnitude of harm that could risk-based policies and procedures that cost-effectively reduce ris to an acceptable level and ensure"
1242," that security is addressed throughout the life cycle of each information system; security awareness training for agency personnel, including contractors and other users of information systems th operations and assets of the agency; periodic testing and evaluation of the effectiveness of information security policies, procedures, and practices; ● a process for planning, implementing, evaluating, and documentingremedial action to address any deficiencies th and milestones; and procedures for detecting, repor"
1243,"ting, and responding to security incidents. In particula agencies evaluate the associated risk according to three categories: (1) confidentiality, which is the risk associated with unauthorized disclosure of the information; (2) integrity, the risk of unauthorized modification or destruction of the information; and (3) availability, which is the risk of disruption of access to or use of information. Thus, each agency should assess the risk associated with personal data held by the agency and develop appropr"
1244,"iate protections. r, FISMA requires that for any information they hold, The agency can use this risk assessment to determine the appropriate controls (operational, technical, and managerial) th will reduce the risk to an acceptably low level. For exampl agency assesses the confidentiality risk of the personal information as high, the agency could create control mechanisms to help prote ct the data from unauthorized disclosure. Besides appropriate policies,at e, if an these controls would include access cont"
1245,"rols and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these controls to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties. In addition access controls can limit the activities that an employee c perform on data. For example, an employee may be given the right to read data, but not to modify or copy it. Assignment of right s and permissions must be carefully considered to avoid giving users unnecessary access to"
1246," sensitive files and directories. trols are key technical controls to protect the To ensure that controls are, in fact, implemented and that no violations have occurred, agencies need to monitor compliance with security policies and investigate security violations. It is crucial to determine what, when, and by whom specific actions are taken on a system. Organizations accomplish this by implementing system or security software that provides an audit trail that they can use to determine the source of a trans"
1247,"action or attempted transaction and to monitor users’ activities. The way in which organizations configure system or security software determines the nature and extent of information that can be provided by the audit trail. To be effective, organizations should configure their software to collect and maintain audit trails that are sufficient to track security events. A comprehensive security program of the type described is a prerequisite for the protection of personally identifiable information held by age"
1248,"ncies. In addition, agencies are subject to requirem specifically related to personal privacy protection, which come primarily from two laws, the Privacy Act of 1974 and the E- Government Act of 2002. The Privacy Act places lim disclosure, and use of personal information maintained in systems of records. The act describes a “record” as any item, collect ion, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by an agency and contains his or her name or another personal identifier.itations on "
1249,"agencies’ collection, It also defines “system of records” as a group of records under the control of any agency from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by an individual identifier. The Privacy Ac t requires that when agencies establish or make changes to a system of records, they must notify the public by a “system-of-records notice”: that is, a notice in the Federal Register identifying, among other things, the type of data collected, the types of individuals about whom informa"
1250,"tion is collected, the intended “routine” uses o data, and procedures that individuals can use to review and corr personal information. Among other provisions, the act also requires agencies to define and limit themselves to specific predefined purposes. The provisions of the Privacy Act are consistent with and large based on a set of principles for protecting the privacy and security of personal information, known as the Fair Information Practices, which have been widely adopted as a standard benchmark for"
1251, evaluating the adequacy of privacy protections; they include such principles as openness (keeping the public informed about privacy policies and practices) and accountability (those controlling the collection or use of personal information should be accountable for taking steps to ensure the implementation of these principles). The E-Government Act of 2002 strives to enhance protection for personal information in government information systems by requiring that agencies conduct privacy impact assessments (
1252,"PIA PIA is an analysis of how personal information is collected, st shared, and managed in a federal system. More specifically, according to OMB guidance, a PIA is to (1) ensure that handling conforms to applicable legal, regulatory, and policy requirem ents regarding privacy; (2) determine the risks and effects of collecting maintaining, and disseminating information in identifiable form in , an electronic information system; and (3) examine and evaluate protections and alternative processes for handling i"
1253,"nformation to mitigate potential privacy risks. To the extent that PIAs are made publicly available, they provide explanations to the public about such things as the information that will be collected, why it is bein collected, how it is to be used, and how the system and data will b maintained and protected. Federal laws to date have not required breaches to the public, although breac important role in the context of security breaches in the private sector. For example, requirements of California state law"
1254," led ChoicePoint, a large information reseller, to notify its customer a security breach in February 2005. Since the ChoicePoint notification, bills were introduced in at least 44 states and enacted in at least 29 that require some form of notification upon a breach. agencies to report security h notification has played an A numbe in 2005 in the wake of the ChoicePoint security breach as well as incidents at other firms. In March 2005, the House Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection of th"
1255,"e House Energy r of congressional hearings were held and bills introduced and Commerce Committee held a hearing entitled “Protecting Consumers’ Data: Policy Issues Raised by ChoicePoint,” which focused on potential remedies for security and privacy concern s regarding information resellers. Similar hearings were held by th House Energy and Commerce Committee and by the U.S. Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation in spring 2005. In carrying out its mission of providing health care and bene"
1256,"fits to veterans, VA relies on a vast array of computer systems and telecommunications networks to support its operations and store sensitive information, including personal information on veterans. VA’s networks are highly interconnected, its systems support many users, and the department has increasingly moved to more interactive, Web-based services to better meet the needs of its customers. Effectively securing these computer systems and networks is critical to the department’s ability to safeguard its a"
1257,"ssets, maintain the confidentiality of sensitive veterans’ health disability benefits information, and ensure the integrity of its financial data. In this complex IT environment, VA has faced long-standing challenges in achieving effective information security across the department. Our reviews identified wide-ranging, often recurring deficiencies in the department’s information security controls (attachment 2 provides further detail on our reports and the area weakness they discuss). Examples of areas of d"
1258,"eficiency include th following. Access authority was not appropriately controlled. A basic management objective for any organization is to protect the resources that support its critical operations from unauthorized access. Electronic access controls are intended to prevent, limit, and detect unauthorized access to computing resources, prog and information and include controls related to user accounts and passwords, user rights and file permissions, logging and monitori of security-relevant events, and netw"
1259,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information and disruption of service. However, VA had not established effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems and sensitive data, as the following examples illustra ● User accounts and passwords: In 1998, many user accounts at four VA medical centers and data cente"
1260,"rs had weaknesses including passwords that could be easily guessed, null passwords, and passwords that were set to never expire. We also found numerous instances where medical and data center staff members were sharing user IDs and passwords. ● User rights and permissions: We reported in 2000 that three VA health care systems were not ensuring that user accounts w broad access to financial and sensitive veteran informa proper authorization for such access, and were not reviewing these accounts to determine "
1261,"if their level of access remained appropriate. ● Logging and monitoring of security-related events: In 1998, VA did not have any departmentwide guidance for monitoring both successful and unsuccessful attempts to access system files containing key financial information or sensitive veteran data, and none of the medical and data centers we visited were actively monitoring network access activity. In 1999, we found that one data center was monitoring failed access attempts, but was not monitoring successful a"
1262,"ccesses to sensitive data and resources for unusual or suspicious activity. Network management: In 2000, we reported that one of the health care systems we visited had not configured a network parameter to effectively prevent unauthorized access to a network system; this same health care system had also failed to keep its network system software up to date. Physical security controls were inadequate. Physical security co resources from espionage, sabotage, damage, and theft. These co lim are housed and by p"
1263,"eriodically reviewing the access granted, in order to ensure that access continues to be appropriate. VA hadntrols are important for protecting computer facilities and ntrols restrict physical access to computer resources, usually by iting access to the buildings and rooms in whic weaknesses in the physical security for its computer facilities example, in our 1998 and 2000 reports, we stated that none of th facilities we visited were adequately controlling access to their computer rooms. In addition, in 199"
1264,"8 we reported that sensitive equipment at two facilities was not adequately protected, increas the risk of disruption to computer operations or network communications. ing Employees were not prevented from performing incompatible duties. Segregation of duties refers to the policies, procedures, a organizational structures that help ensure that one individual can independently control all key aspects of a process or computer- related operation. Dividing duties among two or more indi organizational grouvidual"
1265,"s or wps diminishes the likelihood that errors and individual or group will serve as a check on the activities of the other. We determined that VA did not assign employee duties and responsibilities in a manner that segregated incompatible functions among individuals or groups of individuals. For example, in 1998 reported that some system programmers also had security administrator privileges, giving them the ability to eliminate anyrongful acts will go undetected, because the activities of one evidence of "
1266,"their activity in the system. In 2000, we reported tha t two VA health care systems allowed some employees to request,approve, and receive medical items without management approval , violating both basic segregation of duties principles and VA policy; in addition, no mitigating controls were found to alert management of purchases made in this manner. d independently reviewed. We ound that VA did not adequately control changes to its operating Software change control procedures were not consistently implemen"
1267,"ted. It is important to ensure that only authorized and fu tested systems are placed in operation. To ensure that changes to systems are necessary, work as intended, and do not result in the loss of data or program integrity, such changes should be documented, authorized, tested, an f systems. For example, in 1998 we reported that one VA data center had not established detailed written procedures or formal guidance for modifying operating system software, for approving and testing operating system software "
1268,"changes, or for implementing these changes. The data center had made more than 100 system softwar changes during fiscal year 1997, but none of the changes included evidence of testing, independent review, or acceptance. We report in 2000 that two VA health care systems had not established procedures for periodically reviewing changes to standard application programs to ensure that only authorized program code was implemented. ed Service continuity planning was not complete. In addition to protecting data an"
1269,"d programs from misuse, organizations mu ensure that they are adequately prepared to cope with a loss operational capability due to earthquakes, fires, accidents, sabotage or any other disrup c continuity plan. Such a plan is critical for helping to ensure that information system operations and data can be promptly restored in the event of a disaster. We reported that VA had not completed o tested service continuity plans for several systems. For example, in 1998 we reported that one VA data center had 17 i"
1270,"ndividual disastertion. An essential element in preparing for such atastrophes is an up-to-date, detailed, and fully tested service recovery plans covering various segments of the organization, but itdid not have an overall document that integrated the 17 separate plans and defined the roles and responsibilities for the disaster recovery teams. In 2000, we determined that the service continuity plans for two of the three health care systems we visited did not include critical elements such as detailed recov"
1271,"ery procedures, provisions for restoring mission-critical systems, and a list of key contacts; in addition, none of the health care systems we visited were fully testing their service continuity plans. These deficiencies existed, in part, because VA had not implemen key components of a comprehensive computer security program . Specifically, VA’s computer security efforts lacked ● clearly delineated security roles and responsib regular, periodic assessments of risk; ● security policies and procedures that ad"
1272,"dressed all aspects of VA’s interconnected environment; ● an ongoing security monitoring program to identi investigate unauthorized, unusual, or suspicious access activity; and ● a process to measure, test, and report effectiveness of computer system, network, and process controls. As a result, we made a number of recommendations in 2002 were aimed at improving VA’s security management. primary elements of these recommendations were that (1) VA centralize its security management functions and (2) it perform"
1273," other actions to establish an information security program, including actions related to risk assessments, security policies procedures, security awareness, and monitoring and evaluating computer controls. GAO, Veterans Affairs: Sustained Management Attention Is Key to Achieving Information Technology Results, GAO-02-703 (Washington, D.C.: June 12, 2002). security policies and procedures. However, the department still needed to develop policy and guidance to ensure (1) authority and independence for securi"
1274,"ty officers and (2) departmentwide coordination of security functions. Periodic risk assessments: VA is implementing a commercial too identify the level of risk associated with system changes and also to conduct information security risk assessments. It also created a methodology that establishes minimum requirements for such risk assessments. However, it has not yet completed its risk assessment policy and guidance. VA reported that such guidance was forthcoming as part of an overarching information system"
1275," security certification and accreditation policy that was to be developed during 2006. Without these elements, VA cannot be assured that it is appropriately performing risk assessments departmentwide. Security policies and procedures: VA’s cyber security officer reported that VA has action ongoing to develop a process for collecting and tracking performance data, ensuring management action when needed, and providing independent validation of reported issues. VA also has ongoing efforts in the area of dete r"
1276,"eporting, and responding to security incidents. For example, it established network intrusion prevention capability at its four enterprise gateways. It is also developing strategic and tactical to complete a security incident response program to monitor suspicious activity and cyber alerts, events, and incidents. Howe these plans are not complete. Security awareness: VA has taken steps to improve security awareness training. It holds an annual department information security conference, and it has developed"
1277," a Web portal for security training, policy, and procedures, as well as a security awareness course that VA employees are required to review annually. Ho VA has not demonstrated that it has a process to ensure complia wever, nce. Monitoring and evaluating computer controls: VA established a process to better monitor and evaluate computer controls by tracking the status of security weaknesses, corrective actions taken, and independent validations of corrective actions through a software data base. However, m"
1278,"ore remains to be done in this area. For example, although certain components of VA reported vulnerability and penetration testing to evaluate controls on and external access to VA systems, this testing was not part of an ongoing departmentwide program. ince our last report in 2002, VA’s IG and independent auditors have S continued to report serious weaknesses with the department’s information security controls. The auditors’ report on internal controls, prepared at the completion of VA’s 2005 financial sta"
1279,"tement audit, identified weaknesses related to access cont rol, segregation of duties, change control, and service continuity—a li of weaknesses that are virtually identical to those we identified years earlier. The department’s FY 2005 Annual Performance an Accountability Report states that the IG determined that many information system security vulnerabilities reported in national audits from 2001 through 2004 remain unresolved, despite the department’s actions to implement IG recommendations in pre audit"
1280,"s. The IG also reported specific security weaknesses and vulnerabilities at 45 of 60 VA health care facilities and 11 of 21 VA t regional offices where security issues were reviewed, placing VA a risk that sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized access and improper disclosure, among other things. As a result, the IG determined that weaknesses in VA’s information technology controls were a material weakness. In response to the IG’s findings, the department indicates that plans are being implemented to "
1281,"address the material weakness in information security. According to the department, it has ma limited resources to make significant improvement in its overall security posture in the near term by prioritizing FISMA remediation activities, and work will continue in the next fiscal year. Despite these actions, the department has not fully implemented the key elements of a comprehensive security management program, and its efforts have not been sufficient to effectively protect its information systems and info"
1282,"rmation, including personally identifiable information, from unauthorized disclosure, misuse, or loss. In addition to establishing a robust information security program, agencies can take other actions to help guard against the possibil that personal information they maintain is inadvertently compromised. These include conducting privacy impact assessments and taking other practical measures. It is important that agencies identify the specific instance they collect and maintain personal information and proa"
1283,"ctively assess the means they intend to use to protect this information. This can be done most effectively through the development of privacy impact assessments (PIAs), which, as previously mentioned, are required by the E-Government Act of 2002 when agencies use information technology to process personal information. PIAs are important because they serve as a tool for agencies to fully consid the privacy implications of planned systems and data collections before those systems and collections have been ful"
1284,"ly implemen when it may be relatively easy to make critical adjustments. In prior work we have found that agencies do not always conduct PIAs as they are required. For example, our review of selected data mining efforts at federal agencies determined that PIAs were not always being done in full compliance with OMB guidance. Similarly, as identified in our work on federal agency use of information resellers, few PIAs were being developed for systems or programs that made use of information reseller data, bec"
1285,"ause officials did not believe they were required. Complete assessments are an important tool for agencies to identify areas of noncompliance with federal privacy laws, evaluate risks arising from electronic collection and maintenance of information about individuals, and evaluate protections or alternative processes needed to mitigate the risks identified. Agencies that do not take all the steps required to the privacy of personal information risk the improper exposure o alteration of such information. We "
1286,recommended that the agencies responsible for the data mining efforts we reviewed complete or revise PIAs as needed and make them available to the public. We also recommended that OMB revise its guidance to clarify the applicability of the E-Gov Act’s PIA requirement to the use of personal information from resellers. OMB stated that it would discuss its guidance with agency senior officials for privacy todetermine whether additional guidance concerning reseller dat needed. Besides strategic approaches suc s
1287,"ecurity program and conducting range of specific practical measures for protecting the privacy andh as establishing an information PIAs, agencies can consider a r security of personal information. Several that may be of particula value in preventing inadvertent data breaches include the following Limit collection of personal information. One item to be analyzed as part of a PIA is the extent to which an agency needs to collect personal information in order to meet the requirements of a specific application."
1288," Limiting the collection of personal information, amon g other things, serves to limit the opportunity for that information to be compromised. For example, key identifying information—such as Social Security numbers—may not be needed for many agency applications that have databases of other personal information. Limiting the collection of personal information is also one of the information practices, which are fundamental to the Privacy Act to good privacy practice in general. Limit data retention. Closely "
1289,"related to limiting data collection is limiting retention. Retaining personal data longer than needed by an agency or statutorily required adds to the risk that the data will be compromised. In discussing data retention, California’s Office of Privacy Protection recently reported an example in which a university experienced a security breach that exposed 15-year-old data, including Social Security numbers. The university subsequently reviewed its policies and decided to shorten the retention period for cert"
1290,"ain types of information. As part of their PIAs, federal agencies can make decisions up front about how lon they plan to retain personal data, aiming to retain the data for as brief a period as necessary. Limit access to personal information and train personnel accordingly. Only individuals with a need to access agency databases of personal information should have such access, and controls should be in place to monitor that access. Further, agenc ies can implement technological controls to prevent personal "
1291,"data from being readily transferred to unauthorized systems or media, such as laptop computers, discs, or other electronic storage devices. Security training, which is required for all federal employees under FISMA, can include training on the risks of exposing personal dat a to potential identity theft, thus helping to reduce the likelihood of data being exposed inadvertently. Consider using technological controls such as encryption wh data need to be stored on portable devices. In certain instances, agenc"
1292,"ies may find it necessary to enable employees to have access to personal data on portable devices such as laptop computers. As discussed, this should be minimized. However, when absolutely necessary, the risk that such data could be exposed to unauthorized individuals can be reduced by using technological controls such as encryption, which significantly limits the ability of such individuals to gain access to the data. Although encrypting data adds to the operational burden on authorized individuals, who mu"
1293,"st enter pass codes or use other authentication means to convert the data into readable text, it can provide reasonable assurance that stolen or lost computer equipment will not result in personal data being compromised, as occurred in the recent incident at VA. A decision about whether to use encryption would logically be made as an en element of the PIA process and an agency’s broader information security program. While these suggestions do not amount to a complete presc ription for protecting personal da"
1294,"ta, they are key elements of an agency’s strategy for reducing the risks that could lead to identity theft. In the event a data breach does occur, agencies must respond quickly in order to minimize the potential harm associated with identity theft. The chairman of the Federal Trade Commission has testified that the Commission believes that if a security breach creates a significant risk of identity theft or other related harm, affected consumers should be notified. The Federal Trade Commission has also repo"
1295,"rted that the overall cost of an incide identity theft, as well as the harm to the victims, is significantly smaller if the misuse of the victim’s personal information is discovered quickly. Applicable laws such as the Privacy Act currently do not req agencies to notify individuals of security breaches involving their personal information; however, doing so allows those affected th opportunity to take steps to protect themselves against the d of identity theft. For law is credited with bringing to the publi"
1296,"c’s notice large data breaches within the private sector, such as those involving ChoicePoint and LexisNexis last year. Arguably, the California lawexample, California’s data breach notification may have mitigated the risk of identity theft to affected individuals by keeping them informed about data breaches and thus enabling them to take steps such as contacting credit bureaus to have fraud alerts placed on their credit files, obtaining copies of their credit reports, scrutinizing their monthly financial a"
1297,"ccount statem taking other steps to protect themselves. Breach notification is also important in that it can help an organization address key privacy rights of individuals, in accordanc with the fair information practices mentioned earlier. Breach notification is one way that organizations—either in the private sector or the government—can follow the openness principle and meet their responsibility for keeping the public informed of how their personal information is being used and who has access to it. Equa"
1298,"lly important, notification is consistent with the principle that those controlling the collection or use of personal information should be accountable for taking steps to ensure the implementa of the other principles, such as use limitation and security safeguards. Public disclosure of data breaches is a key step in ensuring that organizations are held accountable for the protection of personal information. Although the principle of notifying affected individuals (or the public) about data breaches has cle"
1299,"ar benefits, determining the specifics of when and how an agency should issue such notifications presents challenges, particularly in determining the specific criteria for incidents that merit notification. In congressional testim ony, the Federal Trade Commission raised concerns about the thres hold at which consumers should be notified of a breach, cautioning tha strict a standard could have several negative effects. First, notification of a breach when there is little or no risk of harm might create unne"
1300,"cessary concern and confusion. Second, a surfeit of notices, resulting from notification criteria that are too strict, could render all such notices less effective, because consumers could become numb to them and fail to act when risks are truly significant. Finally, the costs to both individuals and business are t too not insignificant and may be worth considering. FTC points out that, in response to a security breach notification, a consumer may ca credit cards, contact credit bureaus to place fraud alert"
1301,"s on credit files, or obtain a new driver’s license number. These actions cou ld panies be time-consuming for the individual and costly for the com involved. Given these potential negative effects, care is clearly needed in defining appropriate criteria for required breach notifications. Once a determination has been made that a public notice is to be issued, care must be taken to ensure that it does its job effectively. Designing useful, easy-to-understand notices has been cited a in other areas where priv"
1302,"acy notices are required by law, challenge such as in the financial industry—where businesses are required by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act to send notices to consumers ab out their privacy practices—and in the federal government, which is required by the Privacy Act to issue public notices in the Federal Register about its systems of records containing personal information. For example, as noted during a public workshop hosted by the Department of Homeland Security’s Privacy Office, designing easy-to-understa"
1303,"nd consumer financial privacy notices to meet Gramm-Leach Bliley Act requirements has been challenging Officials from the FTC and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency described widespread criticism of these notices—that t were unexpected, too long, filled with legalese, and not understandable. . If an agency is to notify people of a data breach, it should do so in such a way that they understand the nature of the threat and what steps need to be taken to protect themselves against identity theft. In co"
1304,"nnection with its state law requiring security breach notifications, the California Office of Privacy Protection has published recommended practices for designing and issuing security breach notices. The office recommends that such notifications include, among other things, a general description of what happened; the type of personal information that was involved; what steps have been taken to prevent further unauthorized acquisition of personal information; the types of assistance to be p free contact tele"
1305,"phone number for additional information and assistance; rovided to individuals, such as a toll- information on what individuals can do to protect th identity theft, including contact information for the three cred reporting agencies; and it information on where individuals can obtain additional information on protection against identity theft, such as the Federal Trade Commission’s Identity Theft Web site (www.consumer.gov/idtheft). The California Office of Privacy Protection also recommends making notices "
1306,"clear, conspicuous, and helpful by using clear, simple language and avoiding jargon, and it suggests avoiding using a standardized format to mitigate the risk that the public will become complacent about the process. The Federal Trade Commission has issued guidance to businesses on notifying individuals of data breaches that reiterates several key elements of effective notification—describing clearly what is known about the data compromise, explaining what responses may be appropriate for the type of inform"
1307,"ation taken, and providing information and contacts regarding identity theft in general. The Commission also suggests providing contact information for the law enforcement officer working on the case, as well as encouraging individuals who discover that their information has been misused to file a complaint with the Commission. Both the state of California and the Federal Trade Commission recommend consulting with cognizant law-enforcement officers about an incident before issuing notices to the public. In "
1308,"some cases, early notification or disclosure of certain facts about an incident could hamper a law enforcement investigation. For example, an otherwise unknowing thief could learn of the potential value of data stored on a laptop computer that was originally stolen purely for the value of the hardware. Thus it is recommended tha organizations consult with law enforcement regarding the timing and content of notifications. However, law enforcement investigations should not necessarily result in lengthy delays"
1309," in notification. California’s guidance states that it should not be necessary for a law enforcement agency to complete an investigation before notification can be given. t When providing notifications to the public, organizations should consider how to ensure that these are easily understood. Various techniques have been suggested to promote comprehension, including the concept of “layering.” Layering involves providing only the most important summary facts up front—often in a graphical format—followed by "
1310,"one or more lengthier, more narrative versions in order to ensure that all information is communicated that needs to be. Multilayering may be an option to achieving an easy-to-understand notice that is still complete. Similarly, providing context to the notice (explaining to consu why they are receiving the notice and what to do with it) has been found to promote comprehension, as did visual design elem such as a tabular format, large and legible fonts, appropriate space, and simple headings. Although these"
1311," techniques were developed for other kinds of notices, they can be applied to those informing the public of data breaches. For example, a multilayered security breach notice could include a brief description of the nature of the security breach, thepotential threat to victims of the incident, and measures to be taken to protect against identity theft. The notice could provide additional details about the incident as an attachment or by providing links to additional information. This would accomplish the pur"
1312,"pose of communicating the key details in a brief format, while still providi ng complete information to those who require it. Given that people maybe adversely affected by a compromise of their personal information, it is critical that they fully understand the nature of the threat and the options they have to address it. In summary, the recent security breach at VA has highlighted the importance of implementing effective information security practices. Long-standing information security control weaknesses "
1313,"at VA have placed its information systems and information, including personally identifiable information, at increased risk of misuse and unauthorized disclosure. Although VA has taken steps to mitigate previously reported weaknesses, it has not implemented a comprehensive, integrated information security program, which it needs in order to effectively manage risks on an ongoing basis. Much work remains to be done. Only through strong leadership, sustained management commitment and effort, disciplined proce"
1314,"sses, and consistent oversight can VA address its persistent, long-standing control weaknesses. To reduce the likelihood of experiencing such breaches, agencies can take a number of actions that can help guard against the possibility that databases of personally identifiable information are inadvertently compromised: strategically, they should ensure that a robust information security program is in place and that PIAs are developed. More specific practical measures aimed at preventing inadvertent data breac"
1315,"hes include limiting the collection of pe information, limiting data retention, limiting access to personal information and training personnel accordingly, and considering using technological controls such as encryption when data need to be stored on mobile devices. Nevertheless, data breaches can still occur at any time, and whe n they do, notification to the individuals affected and/or the public h clear benefits, allowing people the opportunity to take steps to dangers of identity theft. Care is protect "
1316,"themselves against the needed in defining appropriate criteria if agencies are to be required to report security breaches to the public. Further, care is also needed to ensure that notices are useful and easy to understand, so that they are effective in alerting individuals to actions they may want to take to minimize the risk of identity theft. We have previously testified that as Congress considers legisla requiring agencies to notify individuals or the public about security tion breaches, it should ensur"
1317,"e that specific criteria are defined for incidents that merit public notification. It may want to consider creating a two-tier reporting requirement, in which all security breaches are reported to OMB, and affected individuals are notifiedonly of incidents involving significant risk. Further, Congress should consider requiring OMB to provide guidance to agencies on how develop and issue security breach notices to the public. Mr. Chairman, this concludes our testimony today. We would be happy to answer any q"
1318,"uestions you or other members of the committee may have. If you have any questions concerning this testimony, please contact Linda Koontz, Director, Information Management, at (202) 512-6240, koontzl@gao.gov, or Gregory Wilshusen, Director, Information Security, at (202) 512-6244, wilshuseng@gao.gov. Other individuals who made key contributions include Idris Adjerid, Barbara Collier, William Cook, John de Ferrari, Valerie Hopkins, Suzanne Lightman, Barbara Oliver, David Plocher, Jamie Pressman, J. Michael R"
1319,"esser, and Charles Vrabel. Information Systems: VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 23, 1998. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls. GAO/AIMD-99-161. Washington, D.C.: June 8, 1999. Information Systems: The Status of Computer Security at the Department of Veterans Affairs. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: October 4, 1999. VA Systems Secur"
1320,"ity: Information System Controls at the North Texas Health Care System. GAO/AIMD-00-52R. Washington, D.C.: February 1, 2000. VA Systems Security: Information System Controls at the New Mexico VA Health Care System. GAO/AIMD-00-88R. Washington, D.C.: March 24, 2000. VA Systems Security: Information System Controls at the VA Maryland Health Care System. GAO/AIMD-00-117R. Washington, D.C.: April 19, 2000. Information Technology: Update on VA Actions to Implement Critical Reforms. GAO/T-AIMD-00-74. Washington, "
1321,"D.C.: May 11, 2000. VA Information Systems: Computer Security Weaknesses Persist at the Veterans Health Administration. GAO/AIMD-00-232. Washington, D.C.: September 8, 2000. Major Management Challenges and Program Risks: Department of Veterans Affairs. GAO-01-255. Washington, D.C.: January 2001. VA Information Technology: Important Initiatives Begun, Yet Serious Vulnerabilities Persist. GAO-01-550T. Washington, D.C.: April 4, 2001. VA Information Technology: Progress Made, but Continued Management Attention"
1322," is Key to Achieving Results. GAO-02-369T. Washington, D.C.: March 13, 2002. Veterans Affairs: Subcommittee Post-Hearing Questions Concerning the Department’s Management of Information Technology. GAO-02-561R. Washington, D.C.: April 5, 2002. Veterans Affairs: Sustained Management Attention is Key to Achieving Information Technology Results. GAO-02-703. Washington, D.C.: June 12, 2002. VA Information Technology: Management Making Important Progress in Addressing Key Challenges. GAO-02-1054T. Washington, D.C"
1323,".: September 26, 2002. Information Security: Weaknesses Persist at Federal Agencies Despite Progress Made in Implementing Related Statutory Requirements. GAO-05-552. Washington, D.C.: July 15, 2005. Privacy: Key Challenges Facing Federal Agencies. GAO-06-777T. Washington, D.C.: May 17, 2006. Personal Information: Agencies and Resellers Vary in Providing Privacy Protections. GAO-06-609T. Washington, D.C.: April 4, 2006. Personal Information: Agency and Reseller Adherence to Key Privacy Principles. GAO-06-421"
1324,". Washington, D.C.: April 4, 2006. Data Mining: Agencies Have Taken Key Steps to Protect Privacy in Selected Efforts, but Significant Compliance Issues Remain. GAO- 05-866. Washington, D.C.: August 15, 2005. Aviation Security: Transportation Security Administration Did Not Fully Disclose Uses of Personal Information during Secure Flight Program Testing in Initial Privacy Notices, but Has Recently Taken Steps to More Fully Inform the Public. GAO-05- 864R. Washington, D.C.: July 22, 2005. Identity Theft: Some"
1325," Outreach Efforts to Promote Awareness of New Consumer Rights are Under Way. GAO-05-710. Washington, D.C.: June 30, 2005. Electronic Government: Federal Agencies Have Made Progress Implementing the E-Government Act of 2002. GAO-05-12. Washington, D.C.: December 10, 2004. Social Security Numbers: Governments Could Do More to Reduce Display in Public Records and on Identity Cards. GAO-05-59. Washington, D.C.: November 9, 2004. Federal Chief Information Officers: Responsibilities, Reporting Relationships, Tenu"
1326,"re, and Challenges, GAO-04-823. Washington, D.C.: July 21, 2004. Data Mining: Federal Efforts Cover a Wide Range of Uses, GAO-04- 548. Washington, D.C.: May 4, 2004. Privacy Act: OMB Leadership Needed to Improve Agency Compliance. GAO-03-304. Washington, D.C.: June 30, 2003. Data Mining: Results and Challenges for Government Programs, Audits, and Investigations. GAO-03-591T. Washington, D.C.: March 25, 2003. Technology Assessment: Using Biometrics for Border Security. GAO-03-174. Washington, D.C.: November "
1327,"15, 2002. Information Management: Selected Agencies’ Handling of Personal Information. GAO-02-1058. Washington, D.C.: September 30, 2002. Identity Theft: Greater Awareness and Use of Existing Data Are Needed. GAO-02-766. Washington, D.C.: June 28, 2002. Social Security Numbers: Government Benefits from SSN Use but Could Provide Better Safeguards. GAO-02-352. Washington, D.C.: May 31, 2002. Full citations are provided in attachment 1. This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright prot"
1328,"ection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately."
1329,"Interest in oil shale as a domestic energy source has waxed and waned since the early 1900s. In 1912, President Taft established an Office of Naval and Petroleum Oil Shale Reserves, and between 1916 and 1924, executive orders set aside federal land in three separate naval oil shale reserves to ensure an emergency domestic supply of oil. The Mineral Leasing Act of 1920 made petroleum and oil shale resources on federal lands available for development under the terms of a mineral lease, but large domestic oil "
1330,"discoveries soon after passage of the act dampened interest in oil shale. Interest resumed at various points during times of generally increasing oil prices. For example, the U.S. Bureau of Mines developed an oil shale demonstration project beginning in 1949 in Colorado, where it attempted to develop a process to extract the oil. The 1970s’ energy crises stimulated interest once again, and DOE partnered with a number of energy companies, spawning a host of demonstration projects. Private efforts to develop "
1331,"oil shale stalled after 1982 when crude oil prices fell significantly, and the federal government dropped financial support for ongoing demonstration projects. More recently, the Energy Policy Act of 2005 directed BLM to lease its lands for oil shale research and development. In June 2005, BLM initiated a leasing program for research, development, and demonstration (RD&D) of oil shale recovery technologies. By early 2007, it granted six small RD&D leases: five in the Piceance Basin of northwest Colorado and"
1332," one in Uintah Basin of northeast Utah. The location of oil shale resources in these two basins is shown in figure 1. The leases are for a 10-year period, and if the technologies are proven commercially viable, the lessees can significantly expand the size of the leases for commercial production into adjacent areas known as preference right lease areas. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 directed BLM to develop a programmatic environmental impact statement (PEIS) for a commercial oil shale leasing program. Durin"
1333,"g the drafting of the PEIS, however, BLM realized that, without proven commercial technologies, it could not adequately assess the environmental impacts of oil shale development and dropped from consideration the decision to offer additional specific parcels for lease. Instead, the PEIS analyzed making lands available for potential leasing and allowing industry to express interest in lands to be leased. Environmental groups then filed lawsuits, challenging various aspects of the PEIS and the RD&D program. S"
1334,"ince then, BLM has initiated another round of oil shale RD&D leasing and is currently reviewing applications but has not made any awards. Stakeholders in the future development of oil shale are numerous and include the federal government, state government agencies, the oil shale industry, academic institutions, environmental groups, and private citizens. Among federal agencies, BLM manages the land and the oil shale beneath it and develops regulations for its development. USGS describes the nature and exten"
1335,"t of oil shale deposits and collects and disseminates information on the nation’s water resources. DOE, through its various offices, national laboratories, and arrangements with universities, advances energy technologies, including oil shale technology. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) sets standards for pollutants that could be released by oil shale development and reviews environmental impact statements, such as the PEIS. The Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) manages federally built water projects that"
1336," store and distribute water in 17 western states and provides this water to users. BOR monitors the amount of water in storage and the amount of water flowing in the major streams and rivers, including the Colorado River, which flows through oil shale country and feeds these projects. BOR provides its monitoring data to federal and state agencies that are parties to three major federal, state, and international agreements, that together with other federal laws, court decisions, and agreements, govern how wa"
1337,"ter within the Colorado River and its tributaries is to be shared with Mexico and among the states in which the river or its tributaries are located. These three major agreements are the Colorado River Compact of 1922, the Upper Colorado River Basin Compact of 1948, and the Mexican Water Treaty of 1944. The states of Colorado and Utah have regulatory responsibilities over various activities that occur during oil shale development, including activities that impact water. Through authority delegated by EPA un"
1338,"der the Clean Water Act, Colorado and Utah regulate discharges into surface waters. Colorado and Utah also have authority over the use of most water resources within their respective state boundaries. They have established extensive legal and administrative systems for the orderly use of water resources, granting water rights to individuals and groups. Water rights in these states are not automatically attached to the land upon which the water is located. Instead, companies or individuals must apply to the "
1339,"state for a water right and specify the amount of water to be used, its intended use, and the specific point from where the water will be diverted for use, such as a specific point on a river or stream. Utah approves the application for a water right through an administrative process, and Colorado approves the application for a water right through a court proceeding. The date of the application establishes its priority—earlier applicants have preferential entitlement to water over later applicants if water "
1340,"availability decreases during a drought. These earlier applicants are said to have senior water rights. When an applicant puts a water right to beneficial use, it is referred to as an absolute water right. Until the water is used, however, the applicant is said to have a conditional water right. Even if the applicant has not yet put the water to use, such as when the applicant is waiting on the construction of a reservoir, the date of the application still establishes priority. Water rights in both Colorado"
1341," and Utah can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale. To extract the oil, the rock needs to be heated to very high temperatures—ranging from about 650 to 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit—in a process known as retorting. Retorting can be accomplished primarily by two methods. One method involves mining the oil shale, bringing it to "
1342,"the surface, and heating it in a vessel known as a retort. Mining oil shale and retorting it has been demonstrated in the United States and is currently done to a limited extent in Estonia, China, and Brazil. However, a commercial mining operation with surface retorts has never been developed in the United States because the oil it produces competes directly with conventional crude oil, which historically has been less expensive to produce. The other method, known as an in-situ process, involves drilling ho"
1343,"les into the oil shale, inserting heaters to heat the rock, and then collecting the oil as it is freed from the rock. Some in-situ technologies have been demonstrated on very small scales, but other technologies have yet to be proven, and none has been shown to be economically or environmentally viable. Nevertheless, according to some energy experts, the key to developing our country’s oil shale is the development of an in-situ process because most of the richest oil shale is buried beneath hundreds to thou"
1344,"sands of feet of rock, making mining difficult or impossible. Additional economic challenges include transporting the oil produced from oil shale to refineries because pipelines and major highways are not prolific in the remote areas where the oil shale is located and the large-scale infrastructure that would be needed to supply power to heat oil shale is lacking. In addition, average crude oil prices have been lower than the threshold necessary to make oil shale development profitable over time. Large-scal"
1345,"e oil shale development also brings socioeconomic impacts. While there are obvious positive impacts such as the creation of jobs, increase in wealth, and tax and royalty payments to governments, there are also negative impacts to local communities. Oil shale development can bring a sizeable influx of workers, who along with their families, put additional stress on local infrastructure such as roads, housing, municipal water systems, and schools. Development from expansion of extractive industries, such as o"
1346,"il shale or oil and gas, has typically followed a “boom and bust” cycle in the West, making planning for growth difficult. Furthermore, traditional rural uses could be replaced by the industrial development of the landscape, and tourism that relies on natural resources, such as hunting, fishing, and wildlife viewing, could be negatively impacted. In addition to the technological, economic, and social challenges to developing oil shale resources, there are a number of significant environmental challenges. Fo"
1347,"r example, construction and mining activities can temporarily degrade air quality in local areas. There can also be long- term regional increases in air pollutants from oil shale processing, upgrading, pipelines, and the generation of additional electricity. Pollutants, such as dust, nitrogen oxides, and sulfur dioxide, can contribute to the formation of regional haze that can affect adjacent wilderness areas, national parks, and national monuments, which can have very strict air quality standards. Because "
1348,"oil shale operations clear large surface areas of topsoil and vegetation, some wildlife habitat will be lost. Important species likely to be negatively impacted from loss of wildlife habitat include mule deer, elk, sage grouse, and raptors. Noise from oil shale operations, access roads, transmission lines, and pipelines can further disturb wildlife and fragment their habitat. In addition, visual resources in the area will be negatively impacted as people generally consider large-scale industrial sites, pipe"
1349,"lines, mines, and areas cleared of vegetation to be visually unpleasant (see fig. 2 for a typical view within the Piceance Basin). Environmental impacts from oil shale development could be compounded by additional impacts in the area resulting from coal mining, construction, and extensive oil and gas development. Air quality and wildlife habitat appear to be particularly susceptible to the cumulative affect of these impacts, and according to some environmental experts, air quality impacts may be the limitin"
1350,"g factor for the development of a large oil shale industry in the future. Lastly, the withdrawal of large quantities of surface water for oil shale operations could negatively impact aquatic life downstream of the oil shale development. Impacts to water resources are discussed in detail in the next section of this report. Oil shale development could have significant impacts on the quality and quantity of surface and groundwater resources, but the magnitude of these impacts is unknown because some technologi"
1351,"es have yet to be commercially proven, the size of a future oil shale industry is uncertain, and knowledge of current water conditions and groundwater flow is limited. Despite not being able to quantify the impacts from oil shale development, hydrologists and engineers have been able to determine the qualitative nature of impacts because other types of mining, construction, and oil and gas development cause disturbances similar to impacts expected from oil shale development. According to these experts, in t"
1352,"he absence of effective mitigation measures, impacts from oil shale development to water resources could result from disturbing the ground surface during the construction of roads and production facilities, withdrawing water from streams and aquifers for oil shale operations, underground mining and extraction, and discharging waste waters from oil shale operations. The quantitative impacts of future oil shale development cannot be measured with reasonable certainty at this time primarily because of three un"
1353,"knowns: (1) the unproven nature of in-situ technologies, (2) the uncertain size of a future oil shale industry, and (3) insufficient knowledge of current groundwater conditions. First, geological maps suggest that most of the prospective oil shale in the Uintah and Piceance Basins is more amenable to in-situ production methods rather than mining because the oil shale lies buried beneath hundreds to thousands of feet of rock. Studies have concluded that much of this rock is generally too thick to be removed "
1354,"economically by surface mining, and deep subsurface mines are likely to be costly and may recover no more than 60 percent of the oil shale. Although several companies have been working on the in-situ development of oil shale, none of these processes has yet been shown to be commercially viable. Most importantly, the extent of the impacts of in- situ retorting on aquifers is unknown, and it is uncertain whether methods for reclamation of the zones that are heated will be effective. Second, it is not possible"
1355," to quantify impacts on water resources with reasonable certainty because it is not yet possible to predict how large an oil shale industry may develop. The size of the industry would have a direct relationship to water impacts. Within the PEIS, BLM has stated that the level and degree of the potential impacts of oil shale development cannot be quantified because this would require making many speculative assumptions regarding the potential of the oil shale, unproven technologies, project size, and producti"
1356,"on levels. Third, hydrologists at USGS and BLM state that not enough is known about current surface water and groundwater conditions in the Piceance and Uintah Basins. More specifically, comprehensive baseline conditions for surface water and groundwater do not exist. Therefore, without knowledge of current conditions, it is not possible to detect changes in groundwater conditions, much less attribute changes to oil shale development. Impacts to water resources from oil shale development would result primar"
1357,"ily from disturbing the ground surface, withdrawing surface water and groundwater, underground mining, and discharging water from operations. In the absence of effective mitigation measures, ground disturbance activities associated with oil shale development could degrade surface water quality, according to the literature we reviewed and water experts to whom we spoke. Both mining and the in-situ production of oil shale are expected to involve clearing vegetation and grading the surface for access roads, pi"
1358,"pelines, production facilities, buildings, and power lines. In addition, the surface that overlies the oil shale would need to be cleared and graded in preparation for mining or drilling boreholes for in-situ extraction. The freshly cleared and graded surfaces would then be exposed to precipitation, and subsequent runoff would drain downhill toward existing gullies and streams. If not properly contained or diverted away from these streams, this runoff could contribute sediment, salts, and possibly chemicals"
1359," or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. Surface mining would expose the entire area overlying the oil shale that is to be mined while subsurface mining would expose less surface area and thereby contribute less runoff. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart. Other in-situ operations, like those proposed by American "
1360,"Shale Oil Company and ExxonMobil, envision directionally drilling wells in rows that are far enough apart so that strips of undisturbed ground would remain. The adverse impacts from ground disturbances would remain until exposed surfaces were properly revegetated. If runoff containing excessive sediment, salts, or chemicals finds its way into streams, aquatic resources could be adversely impacted, according to the water experts to whom we spoke and the literature we reviewed. Although aquatic populations ca"
1361,"n handle short-term increases in sediment, long-term increases could severely impact plant and animal life. Sediment could suffocate aquatic plants and decrease the photosynthetic activity of these plants. Sediment could also suffocate invertebrates, fish, and incubating fish eggs and adversely affect the feeding efficiency and spawning success of fish. Sedimentation would be exacerbated if oil shale activities destroy riparian vegetation because these plants often trap sediment, preventing it from entering"
1362," streams. In addition, toxic substances derived from spills, leaks from pipelines, or leaching of waste rock piles could increase mortality among invertebrates and fish. Surface and underground mining of oil shale will produce waste rock that, according to the literature we reviewed and water experts to whom we spoke, could contaminate surface waters. Mined rock that is retorted on site would produce large quantities of spent shale after the oil is extracted. Such spent shale is generally stored in large pi"
1363,"les that would also be exposed to surface runoff that could possibly transport sediment, salts, selenium, metals, and residual hydrocarbons into receiving streams unless properly stabilized and reclaimed. EPA studies have shown that water percolating through such spent shale piles transports pollutants long after abandonment of operations if not properly mitigated. In addition to stabilizing and revegetating these piles, mitigation measures could involve diverting runoff into retention ponds, where it could"
1364," be treated, and lining the surface below waste rock with impervious materials that could prevent water from percolating downward and transporting pollutants into shallow groundwater. However, if improperly constructed, retention ponds would not prevent the degradation of shallow groundwater, and some experts question whether the impervious materials would hold up over time. Withdrawing water from streams and rivers for oil shale operations could have temporary adverse impacts on surface water, according to"
1365," the experts to whom we spoke and the literature we reviewed. Oil shale operations need water for a number of activities, including mining, constructing facilities, drilling wells, generating electricity for operations, and reclamation of disturbed sites. Water for most of these activities is likely to come from nearby streams and rivers because it is more easily accessible and less costly to obtain than groundwater. Withdrawing water from streams and rivers would decrease flows downstream and could tempora"
1366,"rily degrade downstream water quality by depositing sediment within the stream channels as flows decrease. The resulting decrease in water would also make the stream or river more susceptible to temperature changes—increases in the summer and decreases in the winter. Elevated temperatures could have adverse impacts on aquatic life, including fishes and invertebrates, which need specific temperatures for proper reproduction and development. Elevated water temperatures would also decrease dissolved oxygen, wh"
1367,"ich is needed by aquatic animals. Decreased flows could also damage or destroy riparian vegetation. Removal of riparian vegetation could exacerbate negative impacts on water temperature and oxygen because such vegetation shades the water, keeping its temperature cooler. Similarly, withdrawing water from shallow aquifers—an alternative water source—would have temporary adverse impacts on groundwater resources. Withdrawals would lower water levels within these shallow aquifers and the nearby streams and sprin"
1368,"gs to which they are connected. Extensive withdrawals could reduce groundwater discharge to connected streams and springs, which in turn could damage or remove riparian vegetation and aquatic life. Withdrawing water from deeper aquifers could have longer-term impacts on groundwater and connected streams and springs because replenishing these deeper aquifers with precipitation generally takes longer. Underground mining would permanently alter the properties of the zones that are mined, thereby affecting grou"
1369,"ndwater flow through these zones, according to the literature we reviewed and the water experts to whom we spoke. The process of removing oil shale from underground mines would create large tunnels from which water would need to be removed during mining operations. The removal of this water through pumping would decrease water levels in shallow aquifers and decrease flows to streams and springs that are connected. When mining operations cease, the tunnels would most likely be filled with waste rock, which w"
1370,"ould have a higher degree of porosity and permeability than the original oil shale that was removed. Groundwater flow through this material would increase permanently, and the direction and pattern of flows could change permanently. Flows through the abandoned tunnels could decrease ground water quality by increasing concentrations of salts, metals, and hydrocarbons within the groundwater. In-situ extraction would also permanently alter aquifers because it would heat the rock to temperatures that transform "
1371,"the solid organic compounds within the rock into liquid hydrocarbons and gas that would fracture the rock upon escape. Water would be cooked off during the heating processes. Some in-situ operations envision using a barrier to isolate thick zones of oil shale with intervening aquifers from any adjacent aquifers and pumping out all the groundwater from this isolated area before retorting. Other processes, like those envisioned by ExxonMobil and AMSO, involve trying to target thinner oil shale zones that do n"
1372,"ot have intervening aquifers and, therefore, would theoretically not disturb the aquifers. However, these processes involve fracturing the oil shale, and it is unclear whether the fractures could connect the oil shale to adjacent aquifers, possibly contaminating the aquifer with hydrocarbons. After removal of hydrocarbons from retorted zones, the porosity and permeability of the zones are expected to increase, thereby allowing increased groundwater flow. Some companies propose rinsing retorted zones with wa"
1373,"ter to remove residual hydrocarbons. However, the effectiveness of rinsing is unproven, and residual hydrocarbons, metals, salts, and selenium that were mobilized during retorting could contaminate the groundwater. Furthermore, the long-term effects of groundwater flowing through retorted zones are unknown. The discharge of waste waters from operations would temporarily increase water flows in receiving streams. According to BLM’s PEIS, waste waters from oil shale operations that could be discharged include"
1374," waters used in extraction, cooling, the production of electricity, and sewage treatment, as well as drainage water collected from spent oil shale piles and waters pumped from underground mines or wells used to dewater the retorted zones. Discharges could decrease the quality of downstream water if the discharged water is of lower quality, has a higher temperature, or contains less oxygen. Lower-quality water containing toxic substances could increase fish and invertebrate mortality. Also, increased flow in"
1375,"to receiving streams could cause downstream erosion. However, at least one company is planning to recycle waste water and water produced during operations so that discharges and their impacts could be substantially reduced. While commercial oil shale development requires water for numerous activities throughout its life cycle, estimates vary widely for the amount of water needed to commercially produce oil shale. This variation in estimates stems primarily from the uncertainty associated with reclamation te"
1376,"chnologies for in-situ oil shale development and because of the various ways to generate power for oil shale operations, which use different amounts of water. Based on our review of available information for the life cycle of oil shale production, existing estimates suggest that from about 1 to 12 barrels of water could be needed for each barrel of oil produced from in-situ operations, with an average of about 5 barrels. About 2 to 4 barrels of water could be needed for each barrel of oil produced from mini"
1377,"ng operations with a surface retort. Water is needed for five distinct groups of activities that occur during the life cycle of oil shale development: (1) extraction and retorting, (2) upgrading of shale oil, (3) reclamation, (4) power generation, and (5) population growth associated with oil shale development. Extraction and retorting. During extraction and retorting, water is used for building roads, constructing facilities, controlling dust, mining and handling ore, drilling wells for in-situ extraction,"
1378," cooling of equipment and shale oil, producing steam, in-situ fracturing of the retort zones, and preventing fire. Water is also needed for on-site sanitary and potable uses. Upgrading of shale oil. Water is needed to upgrade, or improve, the quality of the produced shale oil so that it can be easily transported to a refinery. The degree to which the shale oil needs to be upgraded varies according to the retort process. Shale oil produced by surface retorting generally requires more upgrading, and therefore"
1379,", more water than shale oil produced from in-situ operations that heat the rock at lower temperatures and for a longer time, producing higher-quality oil. Reclamation. During reclamation of mine sites, water is needed to cool, compact, and stabilize the waste piles of retorted shale and to revegetate disturbed surfaces, including the surfaces of the waste piles. For in-situ operations, in addition to the typical revegetation of disturbed surfaces, as shown in figure 3, water also will be needed for reclamat"
1380,"ion of the subsurface retorted zones to remove residual hydrocarbons. The volume of water that would be needed to rinse the zones at present is uncertain and could be large, depending primarily on how many times the zones need to be rinsed. In addition, some companies envision reducing water demands for reclamation, as well as for extracting, retorting, and upgrading, by recycling water produced during oil shale operations or by treating and using water produced from nearby oil and gas fields. Recycling tec"
1381,"hnology, however, has not been shown to be commercially viable for oil shale operations, and there could be legal restrictions on using water produced from oil and gas operations. Power generation. Water is also needed throughout the life cycle of oil shale production for generating electricity from power plants needed in operations. The amount of water used to produce this electricity varies significantly according to generation and cooling technologies employed. For example, thermoelectric power plants us"
1382,"e a heat source to make steam, which turns a turbine connected to a generator that makes the electricity. The steam is captured and cooled, often with additional water, and is condensed back into water that is then recirculated through the system to generate more steam. Plants that burn coal to produce steam use more water for cooling than combined cycle natural gas plants, which combust natural gas to turn a turbine and then capture the waste heat to produce steam that turns a second turbine, thereby produ"
1383,"cing more electricity per gallon of cooling water. Thermoelectric plants can also use air instead of water to condense the steam. These plants use fans to cool the steam and consume virtually no water, but are less efficient and more costly to run. Population growth. Additional water would be needed to support an anticipated increase in population due to oil shale workers and their families who migrate into the area. This increase in population can increase the demand for water for domestic uses. In isolate"
1384,"d rural areas where oil shale is located, sufficiently skilled workers may not be available. Based on studies that we reviewed, the total amount of water needed for in-situ oil shale operations could vary widely, from about 1 to 12 barrels of water per barrel of oil produced over the entire life cycle of oil shale operations. The average amount of water needed for in-situ oil shale production as estimated by these studies is about 5 barrels. This range is based on information contained primarily in studies "
1385,"published in 2008 and 2009 by ExxonMobil, Shell, the Center for Oil Shale Technology and Research at the Colorado School of Mines, the National Oil Shale Association, and contractors to the state of Colorado. Figure 3 shows Shell’s in-situ experimental site in Colorado. Because only two studies examined all five groups of activities that comprise the life cycle of oil shale production, we reviewed water estimates for each group of activities that is described within each of the eight studies we reviewed. We"
1386," calculated the minimum and the maximum amount of water that could be needed for in-situ oil shale development by summing the minimum estimates and the maximum estimates, respectively, for each group of activities. Differences in estimates are due primarily to the uncertainty in the amount of water needed for reclamation and to the method of generating power for operations. Table 1 shows the minimum, maximum, and average amounts of water that could be needed for each of the five groups of activities that co"
1387,"mprise the life cycle of in-situ oil shale development. The table shows that reclamation activities contribute the largest amount of uncertainty to the range of total water needed for in-situ oil shale operations. Reclamation activities, which have not yet been developed, contribute from 0 to 5.5 barrels of water for each barrel of oil produced, according to the studies we analyzed. This large range is due primarily to the uncertainty in how much rinsing of retorted zones would be necessary to remove residu"
1388,"al hydrocarbons and return groundwater to its original quality. On one end of the range, scientists at ExxonMobil reported that retorted zones may be reclaimed by rinsing them several times and using 1 barrel of water or less per barrel of oil produced. However, another study suggests that many rinses and many barrels of water may be necessary. For example, modeling by the Center for Oil Shale Technology and Research suggests that if the retorted zones require 8 or 10 rinses, 5.5 barrels of water could be n"
1389,"eeded for each barrel of oil produced. Additional uncertainty lies in estimating how much additional porosity in retorted zones will be created and in need of rinsing. Some scientists believe that the removal of oil will double the amount of pore space, effectively doubling the amount of water needed for rinsing. Other scientists question whether the newly created porosity will have enough permeability so that it can be rinsed. Also, the efficiency of recycling waste water that could be used for additional "
1390,"rinses adds to the amount of uncertainty. For example, ExxonMobil scientists believe that almost no new fresh water would be needed for reclamation if it can recycle waste water produced from oil shale operations or treat and use saline water produced from nearby oil and gas wells. Table 1 also shows that the water needs for generating power contribute significant uncertainty to the estimates of total water needed for in-situ extraction. Estimates of water needed to generate electricity range from near zero"
1391," for thermoelectric plants that are cooled by air to about 3.4 barrels for coal-fired thermoelectric plants that are cooled by water, according to the studies that we analyzed. These studies suggested that from about 0.7 to about 1.2 barrels of water would be needed if electricity is generated from combined cycle plants fueled by natural gas, depending on the power requirements of the individual oil shale operation. Overall power requirements are large for in-situ operations because of the many electric hea"
1392,"ters used to heat the oil shale over long periods of time—up to several years for one technology proposed by industry. However, ExxonMobil, Shell, and AMEC—a contractor to the state of Colorado— believe that an oil shale industry of significant size will not use coal-fired electric power because of its greater water requirements and higher carbon dioxide emissions. In fact, according to an AMEC study, estimates for power requirements of a 1.5 million-barrel-per-day oil shale industry would exceed the curren"
1393,"t coal-fired generating capacity of the nearest plant by about 12 times, and therefore would not be feasible. Industry representatives with whom we spoke said that it is more likely that a large oil shale industry would rely on natural gas-powered combined cycle thermoelectric plants, with the gas coming from gas fields within the Piceance and Uintah Basins or from gas produced during the retort process. ExxonMobil reports that it envisions cooling such plants with air, thereby using next to no water for ge"
1394,"nerating electricity. However, cooling with air can be more costly and will ultimately require more electricity. In addition, table 1 shows that extracting and retorting activities and upgrading activities also contribute to the uncertainty in the estimates of water needed for in-situ operations, but this uncertainty is significantly less than that of reclamation activities or power generation. The range for extraction and retorting is from 0 to 1 barrel of water. The range for upgrading the produced oil is"
1395," from 0.6 to 1.6 barrels of water, with both the minimum and maximum of this range cited in a National Oil Shale Association study. Hence, each of these two groups of activities contribute about 1 barrel of water to the range of estimates for the total amount of water needed for the life cycle of in-situ oil shale production. Last, table 1 shows there is little variation in the likely estimates of water needed to support the anticipated population increase associated with in- situ oil shale development. Det"
1396,"ailed analyses of water needs for population growth associated with an oil shale industry are present in the PEIS, a study by the URS Corporation, and a study completed by the Institute for Clean and Secure Energy at the University of Utah. These estimates often considered the number of workers expected to move into the area, the size of the families to which these workers belong, the ratio of single-family to multifamily housing that would accommodate these families, and per capita water consumption associ"
1397,"ated with occupants of different housing types. Figure 4 compares the total water needs over the life cycle of in-situ oil shale development according to the various sources of power generation, as suggested by the studies we reviewed. This is a convenient way to visualize the water needs according to power source. The minimum, average, and maximum values are the sum of the minimum, average, and maximum water needs, respectively, for all five groups of activities. Most of the difference between the minimum "
1398,and the maximum of each power type is due to water needed for reclamation. Estimates of water needed for mining oil shale and retorting it at the surface vary from about 2 to 4 barrels of water per barrel of oil produced over the entire life cycle of oil shale operations. The average is about 3 barrels of water. This range is based primarily on information obtained through a survey of active oil shale companies completed by the National Oil Shale Association in 2009 and information obtained from three diffe
1399,"rent retorts, as published in a report by the Office of Technology Assessment (OTA) in 1980. Figure 5 shows a surface retort that is operating today at a pilot plant. Because only two studies contained reliable information for all five groups of activities that comprise the life cycle of oil shale production, we reviewed water estimates for each group of activities that is described within each of the eight studies we reviewed. We calculated the minimum and the maximum amount of water that could be needed f"
1400,"or mining oil shale by summing the minimum estimates and the maximum estimates, respectively, for each group of activities. The range of water estimates for mining oil shale is far narrower than that of in-situ oil shale production because, according to the studies we reviewed, there are no large differences in water estimates for any of the activities. Table 2 shows the minimum, maximum, and average amounts of water that could be needed for each of the groups of activities that comprise the life cycle of o"
1401,"il shale development that relies upon mining and surface retorting. Unlike for in-situ production, we could not segregate extraction and retorting activities from upgrading activities because these activities were grouped together in some of the studies on mining and surface retorting. Nonetheless, as shown in table 2, the combination of these activities contributes 1 barrel of water to the total range of estimated water needed for the mining and surface retorting of oil shale. This 1 barrel of water result"
1402,"s primarily from the degree to which the resulting shale oil would need upgrading. An oil shale company representative told us that estimates for upgrading shale oil vary due to the quality of the shale oil produced during the retort process, with higher grades of shale oil needing less processing. Studies in the OTA report did not indicate much variability in water needs for the mining of the oil shale and the handling of ore. Retorts also produce water—about half a barrel for each barrel of oil produced—b"
1403,y freeing water that is locked in organic compounds and minerals within the oil shale. Studies in the OTA report took this produced water into consideration and reported the net anticipated water use. Table 2 also shows that differences in water estimates for generating power contributed about 1 barrel of water to the range of water needed for mining and surface retorting. We obtained water estimates for power generation either directly from the studies or from power requirements cited within the studies. E
1404,"stimates of water needed range from zero barrels for electricity coming from thermoelectric plants that are cooled by air to about 0.9 barrels for coal-fired thermoelectric plants that are cooled with water. About 0.3 barrels of water are needed to generate electricity from combined cycle plants fueled by natural gas. Startup oil shale mining operations, which have low overall power requirements, are more likely to use electricity from coal-fired power plants, according to data supplied by oil shale compani"
1405,"es, because such generating capacity is available locally. However, a large-scale industry may generate electricity from the abundant natural gas in the area or from gas that is produced during the retorting of oil shale. Water needs for reclamation or for supporting an anticipated increase in population associated with mining oil shale show little variability in the studies that we reviewed. Figure 6 compares the total water needs over the life cycle of mining and surface retorting of oil shale according t"
1406,"o the various sources of power generation. The minimum, average, and maximum values are the sum of the minimum, average, and maximum water needs, respectively, for all five groups of activities. Water is likely to be available for the initial development of an oil shale industry, but the eventual size of the industry may be limited by the availability of water and demands for water to meet other needs. Oil shale companies operating in Colorado and Utah will need to have water rights to develop oil shale, an"
1407,"d representatives from all of the companies with which we spoke are confident that they hold at least enough water rights for their initial projects and will likely be able to purchase more rights in the future. Sources of water for oil shale will likely be surface water in the immediate area, such as the White River, but groundwater could also be used. Nonetheless, the possibility of competing municipal and industrial demands for future water, a warming climate, future needs under existing compacts, and ad"
1408,"ditional water needs for the protection of threatened and endangered fishes, may eventually limit the size of a future oil shale industry. Companies with interest in oil shale already hold significant water rights in the Piceance Basin of Colorado, and representatives from all of the companies with whom we spoke felt confident that they either had or could obtain sufficient water rights to supply at least their initial operations in the Piceance and Uintah Basins. Western Resource Advocates, a nonprofit env"
1409,"ironmental law and policy organization, conducted a study of water rights ownership in the Colorado and White River Basins of Colorado and concluded that companies have significant water rights in the area. For example, the study found that Shell owns three conditional water rights for a combined diversion of about 600 cubic feet per second from the White River and one of its tributaries and has conditional rights for the combined storage of about 145,000 acre-feet in two proposed nearby reservoirs. Similar"
1410,"ly, the study found that ExxonMobil owns conditional storage capacities of over 161,000 acre-feet on 17 proposed reservoirs in the area. In Utah, the Oil Shale Exploration Company (OSEC), which owns an RD&D lease, has obtained a water right on the White River that appears sufficient for reopening the White River Mine and has cited the possibility of renewing an expired agreement with the state of Utah for obtaining additional water from shallow aquifers connected to the White River. Similarly, Red Leaf Reso"
1411,"urces cites the possibility of drilling a water well on the state-owned lands that it has leased for oil shale development. In addition to exercising existing water rights and agreements, there are other options for companies to obtain more water rights in the future, according to state officials in Colorado and Utah. In Colorado, companies can apply for additional water rights in the Piceance Basin on the Yampa and White Rivers. Shell recently applied—but subsequently withdrew the application—for condition"
1412,"al rights to divert up to 375 cubic feet per second from the Yampa River for storage in a proposed reservoir that would hold up to 45,000 acre-feet for future oil shale development. In Utah, however, officials with the State Engineer’s office said that additional water rights are not available, but that if companies want additional rights, they could purchase them from other owners. Many people who are knowledgeable on western water rights said that the owners of these rights in Utah and Colorado would most"
1413," likely be agricultural users, based on a history of senior agricultural rights being sold to developers in Colorado. For example, the Western Resource Advocates study identified that in the area of the White River, ExxonMobil Corporation has acquired full or partial ownership in absolute water rights on 31 irrigation ditches from which the average amount of water diverted per year has exceeded 9,000 acre-feet. These absolute water rights have appropriation dates ranging from 1883 through 1918 and are thus "
1414,"senior to holders of many other water rights, but their use would need to be changed from irrigation or agricultural to industrial in order to be used for oil shale. Also, additional rights may be available in Utah from other sources. According to state water officials in Utah, the settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Ute Indian tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin. These officials said that it is possible that the tribe"
1415," could lease the water rights to oil shale companies. There are also two water conservancy districts that each hold rights to tens of thousands of acre-feet per year of water in the Uintah Basin that could be developed for any use as determined by the districts, including for oil shale development. Most of the water needed for oil shale development is likely to come first from surface flows, as groundwater is more costly to extract and generally of poorer quality in the Piceance and Uintah Basins. However, "
1416,"companies may use groundwater in the future should they experience difficulties in obtaining rights to surface water. Furthermore, water is likely to come initially from surface sources immediately adjacent to development, such as the White River and its tributaries that flow through the heart of oil shale country in Colorado and Utah, because the cost of pumping water over long distances and rugged terrain would be high, according to water experts. Shell’s attempt to obtain water from the more distant Yamp"
1417,"a River shows the importance of first securing nearby sources. In relationship to the White River, the Yampa lies about 20 to 30 miles farther north and at a lower elevation than Shell’s RD&D leases. Hence, additional costs would be necessary to transport and pump the Yampa’s water to a reservoir for storage and eventual use. Shell withdrew its application citing the global economic downturn. At least one company has considered obtaining surface water from the even more distant Colorado River, about 30 to 5"
1418,"0 miles to the south of the RD&D leases where oil shale companies already hold considerable water rights, but again, the costs of transporting and pumping water would be greater. Although water for initial oil shale development in Utah is also likely to come from the White River as indicated by OSEC’s interest, water experts have cited the Green River as a potential water source. However, the longer distance and rugged terrain is likely to be challenging. Figure 7 shows the locations of the oil shale resour"
1419,"ce areas and their proximity to local surface water sources. In addition to surface water, oil shale companies could use groundwater for operations should more desirable surface water sources be unavailable. However, companies would need to acquire the rights to this groundwater. Shallow groundwater in the Piceance and Uintah Basins occurs primarily within alluvial aquifers, which are aquifers composed of unconsolidated sand and gravel associated with nearby streams and rivers. The states of Utah and Colora"
1420,"do refer to these aquifers legally as tributary waters, or waters that are connected to surface waters and hence are considered to be part of the surface water source when appropriating water rights. Any withdrawal of tributary water is considered to be a withdrawal from the adjacent or nearby stream or river. Less is known about deep groundwater in the Piceance and Uintah Basins, but hydrologists consider it to be of lesser quality, with the water generally becoming increasingly saline with depth. State of"
1421,"ficials in Utah said that they consider this deeper groundwater to be tributary water, and state officials in Colorado said that they generally consider this deeper water also to be tributary water but will allow water rights applicants to prove otherwise. In the Piceance and Uintah Basins, groundwater is not heavily used, illustrating the reluctance of water users to tap this source. Nevertheless, Shell is considering the use of groundwater, and ExxonMobil is considering using water co-produced with natura"
1422,"l gas from nearby but deeper formations in the Piceance Basin. Also, BLM notes that there is considerable groundwater in the regional Bird’s Nest Aquifer in the area surrounding OSEC’s RD&D lease in the Uintah Basin. In addition, representatives of oil shale companies said they plan to use water that is released from the organic components of oil shale during the retort process. Since this water is chemically bound within the solid organic components rather than being in a liquid phase, it is not generally "
1423,"viewed as being groundwater, but it is unclear as to how it would be regulated. Developing a sizable oil shale industry may take many years—perhaps 15 or 20 years by some industry and government estimates—and such an industry may have to contend with increased demands for water to meet other needs. Substantial population growth and its correlative demand for water are expected in the oil shale regions of Colorado and Utah. This region in Colorado is a fast-growing area. State officials expect that the popul"
1424,"ation within the region surrounding the Yampa, White, and Green Rivers in Colorado will triple between 2005 and 2050. These officials expect that this added population and corresponding economic growth by 2030 will increase municipal and industrial demands for water, exclusive of oil shale development, by about 22,000 acre-feet per year, or a 76 percent increase from 2000. Similarly in Utah, state officials expect the population of the Uintah Basin to more than double its 1998 size by 2050 and that correlat"
1425,"ive municipal and industrial water demands will increase by 7,000 acre-feet per year, or an increase of about 30 percent since the mid-1990s. Municipal officials in two communities adjacent to proposed oil shale development in Colorado said that they were confident of meeting their future municipal and industrial demands from their existing senior water rights, and as such will probably not be affected by the water needs of a future oil shale industry. However, large withdrawals could impact agricultural in"
1426,"terests and other downstream water users in both states, as oil shale companies may purchase existing irrigation and agricultural rights for their oil shale operations. State water officials in Colorado told us that some holders of senior agricultural rights have already sold their rights to oil shale companies. A future oil shale industry may also need to contend with a decreased physical supply of water regionwide due to climate change. A contractor to the state of Colorado ran five projections through a "
1427,"number of climate models and found that their average result suggested that by 2040, a warming climate may reduce the amount of water in the White River in Colorado by about 13 percent, or 42,000 acre-feet. However, there was much variability among the five results, ranging from a 40 percent decrease to a 16 percent increase in today’s flow and demonstrating the uncertainty associated with climate predictions. Nevertheless, any decrease would mean that less water would be available downstream in Utah. Becau"
1428,"se of a warmer climate, the contractor also found that water needed to irrigate crops could increase significantly in the White River Basin, but it is uncertain whether the holders of the water rights used to irrigate the crops would be able to secure this additional water. Simultaneously, the model shows that summer precipitation is expected to decrease, thus putting pressure on farmers to withdraw even more water from local waterways. In addition, the contractor predicted that more precipitation is likely"
1429," to fall as rain rather than snow in the early winter and late spring. Because snow functions as a natural storage reservoir by releasing water into streams and aquifers as temperatures rise, less snow means that storage and runoff schedules will be altered and less water may be available at different times of the year. Although the model shows that the White River is expected to have reduced flows due to climate change, the same model shows that the Yampa is more likely to experience an increased flow beca"
1430,"use more precipitation is expected to fall in the mountains, which are its headwaters. Hence, oil shale companies may look to the Yampa for additional water if restrictions on the White are too great, regardless of increased costs to transport the water. While there is not a similar study on climate change impacts for Utah, it is likely that some of the impacts will be similar, considering the close proximity and similar climates in the Uintah and Piceance Basins. Colorado’s and Utah’s obligations under int"
1431,"erstate compacts could further reduce the amount of water available for development. The Colorado River Compact of 1922, which prescribes how the states through which the Colorado River and its tributaries flow share the river’s water, is based on uncharacteristically high flows, as cited in a study contracted by the state of Colorado. Water regulators have since shown that the flow rates used to allocate water under the compact may be 21 percent higher than average historical flow rates, thereby overestima"
1432,"ting the amount of water that may be available to share. As a result, the upstream states of Colorado and Utah may not have as much water to use as they had originally planned and may be forced to curtail water consumption so that they can deliver the amount of water that was agreed on in the compact to the downstream states of Arizona, Nevada, and California. Another possible limitation on withdrawals from the Colorado River system is the requirement to protect certain fish species under the Endangered Spe"
1433,"cies Act. Federal officials stated that withdrawals from the Colorado River system, including its tributaries the White and Green Rivers, could be limited by the amount of flow that is necessary to sustain populations of threatened or endangered fishes. Although there are currently no federally mandated minimum flow requirements on the White River in either Utah or Colorado, the river is home to populations of the federally endangered Colorado Pikeminnow, and the Upper Colorado Recovery Program is currently"
1434," working on a biological opinion which may prescribe minimum flow requirements. In addition, the Green River in Utah is home to populations of four threatened or endangered fishes: the Colorado Pikeminnow, the Razorback Sucker, the Humpback Chub, and the Bonytail Chub. For this reason, agency officials are recommending minimum flow requirements on the Green, which could further restrict the upstream supply of available water. Although oil shale companies own rights to a large amount of water in the oil shal"
1435,"e regions of Colorado and Utah, there are physical and legal limits on how much water they can ultimately withdraw from the region’s waterways, and thus limits on the eventual size of the overall industry. Physical limits are set by the amount of water that is present in the river, and the legal limit is the sum of the water that can be legally withdrawn from the river as specified in the water rights held by downstream users. Examining physical limits can demonstrate how much water may be available to all "
1436,"water users. Subtracting the legal limit can demonstrate how much water is available for additional development, providing that current water rights and uses do not change in the future. The state of Colorado refers to this remaining amount of water in the river as that which is physically and legally available. To put the water needs of a potential oil shale industry in Colorado into perspective, we compared the needs of oil shale industries of various sizes to what currently is physically available in the"
1437," White River at Meeker, Colorado—a small town immediately east of high-quality oil shale deposits in the Piceance Basin. We also compared the water needs of an oil shale industry to what may be physically and legally available from the White River in 2030. Table 3 shows scenarios depicting the amounts of water that would be needed to develop an oil shale industry of various sizes that relies on mining and surface retorting, based on the studies we examined. Table 4 shows similar scenarios for an oil shale i"
1438,"ndustry that uses in-situ extraction, based on the studies that we examined. The sizes are based on industry and expert opinion and are not meant to be predictions. Both tables assume water demands for peak oil shale production rates, but water use may not follow such a pattern. For example, water use for reclamation activities may not fully overlap with water use for extraction. Also, an industry composed of multiple operations is likely to have some operations at different stages of development. Furthermo"
1439,"re, because of the natural variability of stream flows, both on an annual basis and from year-to-year, reservoirs would need to be built to provide storage, which could be used to release a consistent amount of water on a daily basis. Data maintained by the state of Colorado indicate the amount of water that is physically available in the Whiter River at Meeker, Colorado, averages about 472,000 acre-feet per year. Table 3 suggests that this is much more water than is needed to support the water needs for al"
1440,"l the sizes of an industry relying on mining and surface retorting that we considered. Table 4, however, shows that an industry that uses in-situ extraction could be limited just by the amount of water physically available in the White River at Meeker, Colorado. For example, based on an oil shale industry that uses about 12 barrels of water for each barrel of shale oil it produces, such an industry could not reach 1 million barrels per day if it relied solely on physically available water from the White Riv"
1441,"er. Comparing an oil shale industry’s needs to what is physically and legally available considers the needs of current users and the anticipated needs of future users, rather than assuming all water in the river is available to an oil shale industry. The amount of water that is physically and legally available in the White River at Meeker is depicted in table 5. According to the state of Colorado’s computer models, holders of water rights downstream use on average about 153,000 acre-feet per year, resulting"
1442," in an average of about 319,000 acre-feet per year that is currently physically and legally available for development near Meeker. By 2030, however, the amount of water that is physically and legally available is expected to change because of increased demand and decreased supply. After taking into account an anticipated future decrease of 22,000 acre-feet per year of water due to a growing population, about 297,000 acre-feet per year may be available for future development if current water rights and uses "
1443,"do not change by 2030. However, there may be additional decreases in the amount of physically and legally available water in the White River due to climate change, demands under interstate agreements, and water requirements for threatened or endangered fishes, but we did not include these changes in table 5 because of the large uncertainty associated with estimates. Comparing the scenarios in table 4 to the amount of water that is physically and legally available in table 5 shows the sizes that an in-situ o"
1444,"il shale industry may reach relying solely on obtaining new rights on the White River. The scenarios in table 4 suggest that if an in-situ oil shale industry develops to where it produces 500,000 barrels of oil per day—an amount that some experts believe is reasonable—an industry of this size could possibly develop in Colorado even if it uses about 12 barrels of water per barrel of shale oil it produces. Similarly, the scenarios suggest that an in-situ industry that uses about 5 barrels of water per barrel "
1445,"of oil produced—almost the average from the studies in which power comes from combined cycle natural gas plants—could grow to 1 million barrels of oil per day using only the water that appears to be physically and legally available in 2030 in the White River. Table 4 also shows that an industry that uses just 1 barrel of water per barrel of shale oil produced could grow to over 2.5 million barrels of oil per day. Regardless of these comparisons, more water or less water could be available in the future beca"
1446,"use it is unlikely that water rights will remain unchanged until 2030. For example, officials with the state of Colorado reported that conditional water rights—those rights held but not used— are not accounted for in the 297,000 acre-feet per year of water that is physically and legally available because holders of these rights are not currently withdrawing water. These officials also said that the amount of conditional water rights greatly exceeds the flow in the White River near Meeker, and if any of thes"
1447,"e conditional rights are converted to absolute rights and additional water is then withdrawn downstream, even less water will be available for future development. However, officials with the state of Colorado said that some of these conditional water rights are already owned by oil shale companies, making it unnecessary for some companies to apply for new water rights. In addition, they said, some of the absolute water rights that are accounted for in the estimated 153,000 acre-feet per year of water curren"
1448,"tly being withdrawn are already owned by oil shale companies. These are agricultural rights that were purchased by oil shale interests who leased them back to the original owners to continue using them for agricultural purposes. Should water not be available from the White River, companies would need to look to groundwater or surface water outside of the immediate area. There are less data available to predict future water supplies in Utah’s oil shale resource area. The state of Utah did not provide us summ"
1449,"ary information on existing water rights held by oil shale companies. According to the state of Colorado, the average annual physical flow of the White River near the Colorado-Utah border is about 510,000 acre-feet per year. Any amount withdrawn from the White River in Colorado would be that much less water that would be available for development downstream in Utah. The state of Utah estimates that the total water supply of the Uintah Basin, less downstream obligations under interstate compacts, is 688,000 "
1450,"acre-feet per year. Much of the surface water contained in this amount is currently being withdrawn, and water rights have already been filed for much of the remaining available surface water. Although the federal government sponsors research on the nexus between oil shale development and water, a lack of comprehensive data on the condition of surface water and groundwater and their interaction limit efforts to monitor the future impacts of oil shale development. Currently DOE funds some research related to"
1451," oil shale and water resources, including research on water rights, water needs, and the impacts of oil shale development on water quality. Interior also performs limited research on characterizing surface and groundwater resources in oil shale areas and is planning some limited monitoring of water resources. However, there is general agreement among those we contacted— including state personnel who regulate water resources, federal agency officials responsible for studying water, water researchers, and wat"
1452,"er experts—that this ongoing research is insufficient to monitor and then subsequently mitigate the potential impacts of oil shale development on water resources. In addition, DOE and Interior officials noted that they seldom formally share the information on their water-related research with each other. DOE has sponsored most of the oil shale research that involves water- related issues. This research consists of projects managed by the National Energy Technology Laboratory (NETL), the Office of Naval Petr"
1453,"oleum and Oil Shale Reserves, and the Idaho National Laboratory. As shown in table 6, DOE has sponsored 13 of 15 projects initiated by the federal government since June 2006. DOE’s projects account for almost 90 percent of the estimated $5 million that is to be spent by the federal government on water-related oil shale research through 2013. Appendix II contains a list and description of these projects. NETL sponsors the majority of the water-related oil shale research currently funded by DOE. Through works"
1454,"hops, NETL gathers information to prioritize research. For example, in October 2007, NETL sponsored the Oil Shale Environmental Issues and Needs Workshop that was attended by a cross-section of stakeholders, including officials from BLM and state water regulatory agencies, as well as representatives from the oil shale industry. One of the top priorities that emerged from the workshop was to develop an integrated regional baseline for surface water and groundwater quality and quantity. As we have previously "
1455,"reported, after the identification of research priorities, NETL solicits proposals and engages in a project selection process. We identified seven projects involving oil shale and water that NETL awarded since June 2006. The University of Utah, Colorado School of Mines, the Utah Geological Survey, and the Idaho National Laboratory (INL) are performing the work on these projects. These projects cover topics such as water rights, water needs for oil shale development, impacts of retorting on water quality, an"
1456,"d some limited groundwater modeling. One project conducted by the Colorado School of Mines involves developing a geographic information system for storing, managing, analyzing, visualizing, and disseminating oil shale data from the Piceance Basin. Although this project will provide some baseline data on surface water and groundwater and involves some theoretical groundwater modeling, the project’s researchers told us that these data will neither be comprehensive nor complete. In addition, NETL-sponsored res"
1457,"earch conducted at the University of Utah involves examining the effects of oil shale processing on water quality, new approaches to treat water produced from oil shale operations, and water that can be recycled and reused in operations. INL is sponsoring and performing research on four water-related oil shale projects while conducting research for NETL and the Office of Naval Petroleum and Oil Shale Reserves. The four projects that INL is sponsoring were self-initiated and funded internally through DOE’s L"
1458,"aboratory Directed Research and Development program. Under this program, the national laboratories have the discretion to self-initiate independent research and development, but it must focus on the advanced study of scientific or technical problems, experiments directed toward proving a scientific principle, or the early analysis of experimental facilities or devices. Generally, the researchers propose projects that are judged by peer panels and managers for their scientific merits. An INL official told us"
1459," they selected oil shale and water projects because unconventional fossil fuels, which include oil shale, are a priority in which they have significant expertise. According to DOE officials, one of the projects managed by the Office of Naval Petroleum and Oil Shale Reserves is directed at research on the environmental impacts of unconventional fuels. The Los Alamos National Laboratory is conducting the work for DOE, which involves examining water and carbon-related issues arising from the development of oil"
1460," shale and other unconventional fossil fuels in the western United States. Key water aspects of the study include the use of an integrated modeling process on a regional basis to assess the amounts and availability of water needed to produce unconventional fuels, water storage and withdrawal requirements, possible impacts of climate change on water availability, and water treatment and recycling options. Although a key aspect of the study is to assess water availability, researchers on the project told us t"
1461,"hat little effort will be directed at assessing groundwater, and the information developed will not result in a comprehensive understanding of the baseline conditions for water quality and quantity. Within Interior, BLM is sponsoring two oil shale projects related to water resources with federal funding totaling about $500,000. The USGS is conducting the research for both projects. For one of the projects, which is funded jointly by BLM and a number of Colorado cities and counties plus various oil shale com"
1462,"panies, the research involves the development of a common repository for water data collected from the Piceance Basin. More specifically, the USGS has developed a Web-based repository of water quality and quantity data obtained by identifying 80 public and private databases and by analyzing and standardizing data from about half of them. According to USGS officials, many data elements are missing, and the current repository is not comprehensive. The second project, which is entirely funded by BLM, will moni"
1463,"tor groundwater quality and quantity within the Piceance Basin in 5 existing wells and 10 more to be determined at a future date. Although USGS scientists said that this is a good start to understanding groundwater resources, it will not be enough to provide a regional understanding of groundwater resources. Federal law and regulations require the monitoring of major federal actions, such as oil shale development. Regulations developed under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) for preparing an envi"
1464,"ronmental impact statement (EIS), such as the EIS that will be needed to determine the impacts of future oil shale development, require the preparing agency to adopt a monitoring and enforcement program if measures are necessary to mitigate anticipated environmental impacts. Furthermore, the NEPA Task Force Report to the Council on Environmental Quality noted that monitoring must occur for long enough to determine if the predicted mitigation effects are achieved. The council noted that monitoring and consid"
1465,"eration of potential adaptive measures to allow for midcourse corrections, without requiring new or supplemental NEPA review, will assist in accounting for unanticipated changes in environmental conditions, inaccurate predictions, or subsequent information that might affect the original environmental conditions. In September 2007, the Task Force on Strategic Unconventional Fuels—an 11-member group that included the Secretaries of DOE and Interior and the Governors of Colorado and Utah—issued a report with r"
1466,"ecommendations on promoting the development of fuels from domestic unconventional fuel resources as mandated by the Energy Policy Act of 2005. This report included recommendations and strategies for developing baseline conditions for water resources and monitoring the impacts from oil shale development. It recommended that a monitoring plan be developed and implemented to fill data gaps at large scales and over long periods of time and to also develop, model, test, and evaluate short- and long-term monitori"
1467,"ng strategies. The report noted that systems to monitor water quality would be evaluated; additional needs would be identified; and relevant research, development, and demonstration needs would be recommended. Also in September 2007, the USGS prepared for BLM a report to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of BLM’s monitoring efforts. The report noted that regional water-resources monitoring should identify gaps in data, define baseline conditions, develop regional conceptual models, identify impacts, "
1468,"assess the linkage of impacts to energy development, and understand how impacts propagate. The report also noted that in the Piceance Basin, there is no local, state-level, or national comprehensive database for surface water and groundwater data. Furthermore, for purposes of developing a robust and cost-effective monitoring plan, the report stated that a compilation and analysis of available data are necessary. One of the report’s authors told us that the two BLM oil shale projects that the USGS is perform"
1469,"ing are the initial steps in implementing such a regional framework for water resource monitoring. However, the author said that much more work is needed because so much water data are missing. He noted the current data repository is not comprehensive and much more data would be needed to determine whether oil shale development will create adverse effects on water resources. Nearly all the federal agency officials, state water regulators, oil shale researchers, and water experts with whom we spoke said that"
1470," more data are needed to understand the baseline condition of groundwater and surface water, so that the potential impacts of oil shale development can be monitored (see appendix I for a list of the agencies we contacted). Several officials and experts to whom we spoke stressed the need to model the movement of groundwater and its interaction with surface water to understand the possible transport of contaminants from oil shale development. They suggested that additional research would help to overcome thes"
1471,"e shortcomings. Specifically, they identified the following issues: Insufficient data for establishing comprehensive baseline conditions for surface water and groundwater quality and quantity. Of the 18 officials and experts we contacted, 17 noted that there are insufficient data to understand the current baseline conditions of water resources in the Piceance and Uintah Basins. Such baseline conditions include the existing quantity and quality of both groundwater and surface water. Hydrologists among those "
1472,"we interviewed explained that more data are needed on the chemistry of surface water and groundwater, properties of aquifers, age of groundwater, flow rates and patterns of groundwater, and groundwater levels in wells. Although some current research projects have and are collecting some water data, officials from the USGS, Los Alamos National Laboratory, and the universities doing this research agreed their data are not comprehensive enough to support future monitoring efforts. Furthermore, Colorado state o"
1473,"fficials told us that even though much water data were generated over time, including during the last oil shale boom, little of these data have been assimilated, gaps exist, and data need to be updated in order to support future monitoring. Insufficient research on groundwater movement and its interaction with surface water for modeling possible transport of contaminants. Sixteen of 18 officials and experts to whom we spoke noted that additional research is needed to develop a better understanding of the in"
1474,teractions between groundwater and surface water and of groundwater movement. Officials from NETL explained that this is necessary in order to monitor the rate and pattern of flow of possible contaminants resulting from the in- situ retorting of oil shale. They noted that none of the groundwater research currently under way is comprehensive enough to build the necessary models to understand the interaction and movement. NETL officials noted more subsurface imaging and visualization are needed to build geolo
1475,"gic and hydrologic models and to study how quickly groundwater migrates. These tools will aid in monitoring and providing data that does not currently exist. Interior and DOE officials generally have not shared current research on water and oil shale issues. USGS officials who conduct water-related research at Interior and DOE officials at NETL, which sponsors the majority of the water and oil shale research at DOE, stated they have not talked with each other about such research in almost 3 years. USGS staf"
1476,"f noted that although DOE is currently sponsoring most of the water-related research, USGS researchers were unaware of most of these projects. In addition, staff at Los Alamos National Laboratory who are conducting some water-related research for DOE noted that various researchers are not always aware of studies conducted by others and stated that there needs to be a better mechanism for sharing this research. Based on our review, we found there does not appear to be any formal mechanism for sharing water-r"
1477,"elated research activities and results among Interior, DOE, and state regulatory agencies in Colorado and Utah. The last general meeting to discuss oil shale research among these agencies was in October 2007, although there have been opportunities to informally share research at the annual Oil Shale Symposium, the last one of which was conducted at the Colorado School of Mines in October 2010. Of the various officials with the federal and state agencies, representatives from research organizations, and wate"
1478,"r experts we contacted, 15 of 18 noted that federal and state agencies could benefit from collaboration with each other on water-related research involving oil shale. Representatives from NETL, who are sponsoring much of the current research, stated that collaboration should occur at least every 6 months. We and others have reported that collaboration among government agencies can produce more public value than one agency acting alone. Specifically concerning water resources, we previously reported that coo"
1479,"rdination is needed to enable monitoring programs to make better use of available resources in light of organizations often being unaware of data collected by other groups. Similarly in 2004, the National Research Council concluded that coordination of water research is needed to make deliberative judgments about the allocation of funds, to minimize duplication, to present to Congress and the public a coherent strategy for federal investment, and to facilitate large-scale multiagency research efforts. In 20"
1480,"07, the Subcommittee on Water Availability and Quality within the Office of Science and Technology Policy, an office that advises the President and leads interagency efforts related to science and technology stated, “Given the importance of sound water management to the Nation’s well-being it is appropriate for the Federal government to play a significant role in providing information to all on the status of water resources and to provide the needed research and technology that can be used by all to make in"
1481,"formed water management decisions.” In addition, H.R. 1145—the National Water Research and Development Initiative Act of 2009—which has passed the House of Representatives and is currently in a Senate committee, would establish a federal interagency committee to coordinate all federal water research, which totals about $700 million annually. This bill focuses on improving coordination among agency research agendas, increasing the transparency of water research budgeting, and reporting on progress toward res"
1482,"earch outcomes. The unproven nature of oil shale technologies and choices in how to generate the power necessary to develop this resource cast a shadow of uncertainty over how much water is needed to sustain a commercially viable oil shale industry. Additional uncertainty about the size of such an industry clouds the degree to which surface and groundwater resources could be impacted in the future. Furthermore, these uncertainties are compounded by a lack of knowledge of the current baseline conditions of g"
1483,"roundwater and surface water, including their chemistry and interaction, properties of aquifers, and the age and rate of movement of groundwater, in the arid Piceance and Uintah Basins of Colorado and Utah, where water is considered one of the most precious resources. All of these uncertainties pose difficulties for oil shale developers, federal land managers, state water regulators, and current water users in their efforts to protect water resources. Attempts to commercially develop oil shale in the United"
1484," States have spanned nearly a century. During this time, the industry has focused primarily on overcoming technological challenges and trying to develop a commercially viable operation. More recently, the federal government has begun to focus on studying the potential impacts of oil shale development on surface water and groundwater resources. However, these efforts are in their infancy when compared to the length of time that the industry has spent on attempting to overcome technological challenges. These "
1485,"nascent efforts do not adequately define current baseline conditions for water resources in the Piceance and Uintah Basins, nor have they begun to model the important interaction of groundwater and surface water in the region. Thus they currently fall short of preparing federal and state governments for monitoring the impacts of any future oil shale development. In addition, there is a lack of coordination among federal agencies on water-related research and a lack of communicating results among themselves "
1486,"and to the state regulatory agencies. Without such coordination and communication, federal and state agencies cannot begin to develop an understanding of the potential impacts of oil shale development on water resources and monitor progress toward shared water goals. By taking steps now, the federal government, working in concert with the states of Colorado and Utah, can position itself to help monitor western water resources should a viable oil shale industry develop in the future. To prepare for possible "
1487,"impacts from the future development of oil shale, we are making three recommendations to the Secretary of the Interior. Specifically, the Secretary should direct the appropriate managers in the Bureau of Land Management and the U.S. Geological Survey to 1. establish comprehensive baseline conditions for groundwater and surface water quality, including their chemistry, and quantity in the Piceance and Uintah Basins to aid in the future monitoring of impacts from oil shale development in the Green River Forma"
1488,"tion; 2. model regional groundwater movement and the interaction between groundwater and surface water, in light of aquifer properties and the age of groundwater, so as to help in understanding the transport of possible contaminants derived from the development of oil shale; and 3. coordinate with the Department of Energy and state agencies with regulatory authority over water resources in implementing these recommendations, and to provide a mechanism for water-related research collaboration and sharing of "
1489,"results. We provided a copy of our draft report to Interior and DOE for their review and comment. Interior provided written comments and generally concurred with our findings and recommendations. Interior highlighted several actions it has under way to begin to implement our recommendations. Specifically, Interior stated that with regard to our first recommendation to establish comprehensive baseline conditions for surface water and groundwater in the Piceance and Uintah Basins, implementation of this recom"
1490,"mendation includes ongoing USGS efforts to analyze existing water quality data in the Piceance Basin and ongoing USGS efforts to monitor surface water quality and quantity in both basins. Interior stated that it plans to conduct more comprehensive assessments in the future. With regard to our second recommendation to model regional groundwater movement and the interaction between groundwater and surface water, Interior said BLM and USGS are working on identifying shared needs for modeling. Interior undersco"
1491,"red the importance of modeling prior to the approval of large-scale oil shale development and cites the importance of the industry’s testing of various technologies on federal RD&D leases to determine if production can occur in commercial quantities and to develop an accurate determination of potential water uses for each technology. In support of our third recommendation to coordinate with DOE and state agencies with regulatory authority over water resources, Interior stated that BLM and USGS are working t"
1492,"o improve such coordination and noted current efforts with state and local authorities. Interior’s comments are reproduced in appendix III. DOE also provided written comments, but did not specifically address our recommendations. Nonetheless, DOE indicated that it recognizes the need for a more comprehensive and integrated cross-industry/government approach for addressing impacts from oil shale development. However, DOE raised four areas where it suggested additional information be added to the report or to"
1493,"ok issue with our findings. First, DOE suggested that we include in our report appropriate aspects of a strategic plan drafted by an ad hoc group of industry, national laboratory, university, and government representatives organized by the DOE Office of Naval Petroleum and Oil Shale Reserves. We believe aspects of this strategic plan are already incorporated into our report. For example, the strategic plan of this ad hoc group calls for implementing recommendations of the Task Force on Strategic Unconventio"
1494,"nal Fuels, which was convened by the Secretary of Energy in response to a directive within the Energy Policy Act of 2005. The Task Force on Strategic and Unconventional fuels recommended developing baseline conditions for water resources and monitoring the impacts from oil shale development, which is consistent with our first recommendation. The ad hoc group’s report recognized the need to share information and collaborate with state and other federal agencies, which is consistent with our third recommendat"
1495,"ion. As such, we made no changes to this report in response to this comment. Second, DOE stated that we overestimated the amount of water needed for in-situ oil shale development and production. We disagree with DOE’s statement because the estimates presented in our report respond to our objective, which was to describe what is known about the amount of water that may be needed for commercial oil shale development, and they are based on existing publicly available data. We reported the entire range of reput"
1496,"able studies without bias to illustrate the wide range of uncertainty in water needed to commercially develop oil shale, given the current experimental nature of the process. We reported only publicly available estimates based on original research that were substantiated with a reasonable degree of documentation so that we could verify that the estimates covered the entire life cycle of oil shale development and that these estimates did not pertain solely to field demonstration projects, but were instead sc"
1497,alable to commercial operations. We reviewed and considered estimates from all of the companies that DOE identified in its letter. The range of water needed for commercial in-situ development of oil shale that we report ranges from 1 to 12 barrels of water per barrel of oil. These lower and upper bounds represent the sum of the most optimistic and most pessimistic estimates of water needed for all five groups of activities that we identified as comprising the life cycle of in-situ oil shale development. How
1498,"ever, the lower estimate is based largely on estimates by ExxonMobil and incorporates the use of produced water, water treatment, and recycling, contrary to DOE’s statement that we dismissed the significance of these activities. The upper range is influenced heavily by the assumption that electricity used in retorting will come from coal-fired plants and that a maximum amount of water will be used for rinsing the retorted zones, based on modeling done at the Center for Oil Shale Technology and Research. The"
1499," studies supporting these estimates were presented at the 29th Annual Oil Shale Symposium at the Colorado School of Mines. Such a range overcomes the illusion of precision that is conveyed by a single point estimate, such as the manner in which DOE cites the 1.59 barrels of water from the AMEC study, or the bias associated with reporting a narrow range based on the assumption that certain technologies will prevail before they are proven to be commercially viable for oil shale development. Consequently, we m"
1500,"ade no changes to the report in response to this comment. Third, DOE stated that using the amount of water in the White River at Meeker, Colorado, to illustrate the availability of water for commercial oil shale development understates water availability. We disagree with DOE’s characterization of our illustration. The illustration we use in the report is not meant to imply that an entire three-state industry would be limited by water availability at Meeker. Rather, the illustration explores the limitations"
1501," of an in-situ oil shale industry only in the Piceance Basin. More than enough water appears available for a reasonably sized industry that depends on mining and surface retorting in the Piceance basin. Our illustration also suggests that there may be more than enough water to supply a 2.5 million barrel-per-day in-situ industry at minimum water needs, even considering the needs of current water users and the anticipated needs of future water users. In addition, the illustration suggests that there may be e"
1502,"nough water to supply an in-situ industry in the Piceance Basin of between 1 and 2 million barrels per day at average water needs, depending upon whether all the water in the White River at Meeker is used or only water that is expected to be physically and legally available in the future. However, the illustration does point out limitations. It suggests that at maximum water needs, an in-situ industry in the Piceance Basin may not reach 1 million barrels per day if it relied solely on water in the White Riv"
1503,"er at Meeker. Other sources of water may be needed, and our report notes that these other sources could include water in the Yampa or Colorado Rivers, as well as groundwater. Use of produced water and recycling could also reduce water needs as noted in the draft report. Consequently, we made no changes to the report in response to this comment. Fourth, DOE stated that the report gives the impression that all oil shale technologies are speculative and proving them to be commercially viable will be difficult,"
1504," requiring a long period of time with uncertain outcomes. We disagree with this characterization of our report. Our report clearly states that there is uncertainty regarding the commercial viability of in-situ technologies. Based on our discussions with companies and review of available studies, Shell is the only active oil shale company to have successfully produced shale oil from a true in-situ process. Considering the uncertainty associated with impacts on groundwater resources and reclamation of the ret"
1505,"orted zone, commercialization of an in-situ process is likely to be a number of years away. To this end, Shell has leased federal lands from BLM to test its technologies, and more will be known once this testing is completed. With regard to mining oil shale and retorting it at the surface, we agree that it is a relatively mature process. Nonetheless, competition from conventional crude oil has inhibited commercial oil shale development in the United States for almost 100 years. Should some of the companies "
1506,"that DOE mentions in its letter prove to be able to produce oil shale profitably and in an environmentally sensitive manner, they will be among the first to overcome such long-standing challenges. We are neither dismissing these companies, as DOE suggests, nor touting their progress. In addition, it was beyond the scope of our report to portray the timing of commercial oil shale production or describe a more exhaustive history of oil shale research, as DOE had recommended, because much research currently is"
1507," privately funded and proprietary. Therefore, we made no changes to the report in response to this comment. DOE’s comments are reproduced in appendix IV. As agreed with your office, unless you publicly announce the contents of this report earlier, we plan no further distribution until 30 days from the report date. At that time, we will send copies of this report to the appropriate congressional committees, Secretaries of the Interior and Energy, Directors of the Bureau of Land Management and U.S. Geological"
1508," Survey, and other interested parties. In addition, the report will be available at no charge on GAO’s Web site at http://www.gao.gov. If you or your staff have any questions about this report, please contact one of us at (202) 512-3841 or gaffiganm@gao.gov or mittala@gao.gov. Contact points for our Offices of Congressional Relations and Public Affairs may be found on the last page of this report. Key contributors to this report are listed in appendix V. To determine what is known about the potential impact"
1509,"s to groundwater and surface water from commercial oil shale development, we reviewed the Proposed Oil Shale and Tar Sands Resource Management Plan Amendments to Address Land Use Allocations in Colorado, Utah, and Wyoming and Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement (PEIS) prepared by the Bureau of Land Management in September 2008. We also reviewed environmental assessments prepared on Shell Oil’s plans for in-situ development of its research, demonstration, and development (RD&D) tracts in Colora"
1510,"do and on the Oil Shale Exploration Company’s (OSEC) plan to mine oil shale on its RD&D tract in Utah because these two companies have made the most progress toward developing in-situ and mining technologies, respectively. In addition, we reviewed the Office of Technology Assessment’s (OTA) 1980 report, An Assessment of Oil Shale Technologies; the Rand Corporation’s 2005 report, Oil Shale Development in the United States; and the Argonne National Laboratory’s 2005 report, Potential Ground Water and Surface "
1511,"Water Impacts from Oil Shale and Tar Sands Energy-Production Operations. Because the PEIS was the most comprehensive of these documents, we summarized impacts to groundwater and surface water quantity and quality described within this document and noted that these impacts were entirely qualitative in nature and that the magnitude of impacts was indeterminate because the in-situ technologies have yet to be developed. To confirm these observations and the completeness of impacts within the PEIS, we contacted "
1512,"the Environmental Protection Agency, the Colorado Division of Water Resources, the Colorado Water Conservation Board, the Division of Water Quality within the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, the Utah Division of Water Resources, the Utah Division of Water Quality, and the Utah Division of Water Rights—all of which have regulatory authority over some aspect of water resources. To ensure that we identified the range of views on the potential impacts of oil shale development on groundwate"
1513,"r and surface water, we also contacted the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS), the Colorado Geological Survey, the Utah Geological Survey, industry representatives, water experts, and numerous environmental groups for their views on the impacts of oil shale on water resources. To assess the impacts of oil shale development on aquatic resources, we reviewed the PEIS and contacted the Colorado Division of Wildlife and the Utah Division of Wildlife Resources. To determine what is known about the amount of water tha"
1514,"t may be needed for commercial oil shale development, we searched the Internet and relevant databases of periodicals using the words “oil shale” together with “water use.” We also searched Web sites maintained by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), USGS, and the Department of Energy (DOE) for information on oil shale and water use and interviewed officials at these agencies to determine if there were additional studies that we had not identified. We also checked references cited within the studies for othe"
1515,r studies. We limited the studies to those published in 1980 or after because experts with whom we consulted either considered the studies published before then to be adequately summarized in OTA’s 1980 report or to be too old to be relevant. We included certain data within the OTA report because some of the surface retort technologies are similar to technologies being tested today. We did not consider verbal estimates of water needs unless companies could provide more detailed information. The 17 studies t
1516,"hat we identified appear in table 7. For further analysis, we divided the studies into two major groups—in-situ extraction and mining with a surface retort. We dismissed a combination of mining and in-situ extraction because most of these technologies are more than 30 years old and generally considered to be infeasible today. The single company that is pursuing such a combination of technologies today—Red Leaf Resources— has not published detailed data on water needs. After reviewing these studies, we found"
1517," that most of the studies did not examine water needs for the entire life cycle of oil shale development. As such, we identified logical groups of activities based on descriptions within the studies. We identified the following five groups of activities: (1) extraction and retorting, (2) generating power, (3) upgrading shale oil, (4) reclamation, and (5) population growth associated with oil shale development. We did not include refining because we believe it is unlikely that oil shale production will reach"
1518," levels in the near- or midterm to justify building a new refinery. To characterize the water needs for the entire life cycle of oil shale development, we identified within each study the water needs for each of the five groups of activities. Except for OTA’s 1980 report, which is now 30 years old, we contacted the authors of each study and discussed the estimates with them. If estimates within these studies were given for more than one group of activities, we asked them to break down this estimate into the"
1519," individual groups when possible. We only considered further analyzing water needs for groups of activities that were based on original research so as not to count these estimates multiple times. For example, original research on water needs for extraction and retorting may have analyzed mine plans, estimated water needs for drilling wells, estimated water needs for dust control, and discussed recycling of produced water. Original research on water needs for population growth may have discussed the number o"
1520,"f workers immigrating to a region, their family size, per capita water consumption, and the nature of housing required by workers. On the other hand, estimates of water needs that were not based on original research generally reported water needs for multiple groups of activities in barrels of water per barrel of oil produced and cited someone else’s work as the source for this number. We excluded several estimates that seemed unlikely. For example, we eliminated a water estimate for power generation that i"
1521,"ncluded building a nuclear power plant and water estimates for population growth where it was assumed that people would decrease their water consumption by over 50 percent. We also excluded technologies developed prior to 1980 that are dissimilar to technologies being considered by oil shale companies today. We checked mathematical calculations and reviewed power requirements and the reasonableness of associated water needs. For power estimates that did not include associated water needs, we converted power"
1522," needs into water needs using 480 gallons per megawatt hour of electricity produced by coal-fired, wet recirculating thermoelectric plants and 180 gallons per megawatt hour of electricity produced by gas-powered, combined cycle, wet recirculating thermoelectric plants. Air-cooled systems consume almost no water for cooling. Where appropriate, we also estimated shale oil recoveries based the company’s estimated oil shale resources and estimated water needs for rinsing retorted zones based on anticipated chan"
1523,"ges to the reservoir. We converted water requirements to barrels of water needed per barrel of oil produced. For those studies with water needs that met our criteria, we tabulated water needs for each group of activities for both in-situ production and mining with a surface retort. The results appear in tables 8 and 9. We estimated the total range of water needs for in-situ development by summing the minimum estimates for each group of activities and by summing the maximum estimates for the various groups o"
1524,"f activities. We did the same for mining with a surface retort. We also calculated the average water needs for each group of activities. To determine the extent to which water is likely to be available for commercial oil shale development and its source, we compared the total needs of an oil shale industry of various sizes to the amount of surface water and groundwater that the states of Colorado and Utah estimate to be physically and legally available, in light of future municipal and industrial demand. We"
1525," selected the sizes of an oil shale industry based on input from industry and DOE. These are hypothetical sizes, and we do not imply that an oil shale industry will grow to these sizes. The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Canadian tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels of oil per day is based on DOE projections. We based our smallest size of a minin"
1526,"g industry, 25,000 barrels of oil per day, on one-half of the smallest scenario identified by URS in their work on water needs contracted by the state of Colorado. We based our largest size of a mining industry, 150,000 barrels of oil per day, on three projects each of 50,000 barrels of oil per day, which is a commonly cited size for a commercial oil shale mining operation. We reviewed and analyzed two detailed water studies commissioned by the state of Colorado to determine how much water is available in C"
1527,"olorado, where it was available, and to what extent demands will be placed on this water in the future. We also reviewed a report prepared for the Colorado Water Conservation Board on future water availability in the Colorado River. These studies were identified by water experts at various Colorado state water agencies as the most updated information on Colorado’s water supply and demand. To determine the available water supply and the potential future demand in the Uintah Basin, we reviewed and analyzed da"
1528,"ta in documents prepared by the Utah Division of Water Resources. We also examined data on water rights provided by the Utah Division of Water Rights and examined data collected by Western Resource Advocates on oil shale water rights in Colorado. In addition to reviewing these documents, we interviewed water experts at the Bureau of Reclamation, USGS, Utah Division of Water Rights, Utah Division of Water Resources, Utah Division of Water Quality, Colorado Division of Natural Resources, Colorado Division of "
1529,"Water Resources, Colorado River Water Conservation District, the Utah and Colorado State Demographers, and municipal officials in the oil shale resource area. To identify federally funded research efforts to address the impacts of commercial oil shale development on water resources, we interviewed officials and reviewed information from offices or agencies within DOE and the Department of the Interior (Interior). Within DOE, these offices were the Office of Naval Petroleum and Oil Shale Reserves, the Nation"
1530,"al Energy Technology Laboratory, and other DOE offices with jurisdiction over various national laboratories. Officials at these offices identified the Idaho National Laboratory and the Los Alamos National Laboratory as sponsoring or performing water-related oil shale research. In addition, they identified experts at Argonne National Laboratory who worked on the PEIS for BLM or who wrote reports on water and oil shale issues. Within Interior, we contacted officials with BLM and the USGS. We asked officials a"
1531,"t all of the federal agencies and offices that were sponsoring federal research to provide details on research that was water-related and to provide costs for the water-related portions of these research projects. For some projects, based on the nature of the research, we counted the entire award as water-related. We identified 15 water-related oil shale research projects. A detailed description of these projects is in appendix II. To obtain additional details on the work performed under these research proj"
1532,"ects, we interviewed officials with all the sponsoring organizations and the performing organizations, including the Colorado School of Mines, University of Utah, Utah Geological Survey, Idaho National Laboratory, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Argonne National Laboratory, and the USGS. To assess additional needs for research and to evaluate any gaps between research needs and the current research projects, we interviewed officials with 14 organizations and four experts that are authors of studies or repor"
1533,"ts we used in our analyses and that are recognized as having extensive knowledge of oil shale and water issues. The names of the 14 organizations appear in table 10. These discussions involved officials with all the federal offices either sponsoring or performing water-related oil shale research and state agencies involved in regulating water resources. Appendix II: Descriptions of Federally Funded Water-Related Oil Shale Research $4,838,097 The University of Utah received four separate awards, each coverin"
1534,"g a broad array of oil shale research over multiple years. The awards included some water-related work. Examples of projects include (1) Meeting Data Needs to Perform a Water Impact Assessment for Oil Shale Development in the Uintah and Piceance Basins, (2) Effect of Oil Shale Processing on Water Compositions, and () New Approaches to Treat Produced Water and Perform Water Availability Impact Assessments for Oil Shale Development. In addition to the individuals named above, Dan Haas (Assistant Director), Ro"
1535,"n Belak, Laura Hook, and Randy Jones made major contributions to this report. Other individuals who made significant contributions were Charles Bausell, Virginia Chanley, Alison O’Neill, Madhav Panwar, and Barbara Timmerman."
1536,"The federal government began with a public debt of about $78 million in 1789. Since then, the Congress has attempted to control the size of the debt by imposing ceilings on the amount of Treasury securities that could be outstanding. In February 1941, the Congress set an overall ceiling of $65 billion on all types of Treasury securities that could be outstanding at any one time. This ceiling was raised several times between February 1941 and June 1946 when a ceiling of $275 billion was set and remained in e"
1537,"ffect until August 1954. At that time, the Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. Although most of this debt is held by the public, about one fourth of it or $1.325 trillion, as of October 31, 1995, is issued to federal trust funds, such as the Social Security funds, the Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. The Secretary of the Trea"
1538,"sury has several responsibilities relating to the federal government’s financial management operations. These include paying the government’s obligations and investing trust fund receipts not needed for current benefits and expenses. The Congress has generally provided the Secretary with the ability to issue the necessary securities to the trust funds for investment purposes and to borrow the necessary funds from the public to pay government obligations. Under normal circumstances, the debt ceiling is not a"
1539,"n impediment in carrying out these responsibilities. Treasury is notified by the appropriate agency (such as the Office of Personnel Management for the Civil Service fund) of the amount that should be invested (or reinvested) and Treasury makes the investment. In some cases, the actual security that Treasury should purchase may also be specified. These securities count against the debt ceiling. Consequently, if trust fund receipts are not invested, an increase in the debt subject to the debt ceiling does no"
1540,"t occur. When Treasury is unable to borrow as a result of reaching the debt ceiling, the Secretary is unable to fully discharge his financial management responsibilities using the normal methods. On various occasions over the years, normal government financing has been disrupted because Treasury had borrowed up to or near the debt ceiling and legislation to increase the debt ceiling had not yet been enacted. These situations are commonly referred to as debt ceiling crises. In 1985 the government experienced"
1541," a debt ceiling crisis from September 3 through December 11. During that period, Treasury took several actions that were similar to those discussed in this report. For example, Treasury redeemed Treasury securities held by the Civil Service fund earlier than normal in order to borrow sufficient cash from the public to meet the fund’s benefit payments and did not invest some trust fund receipts. In 1986 and 1987, following Treasury’s experiences during prior debt ceiling crises, the Congress provided to the "
1542,"Secretary of the Treasury statutory authority to use the Civil Service fund and the G-Fund to assist Treasury in managing its financial operations during a debt ceiling crisis. The following are statutory authorities provided to the Secretary of Treasury that are pertinent to the 1995-1996 debt ceiling crisis and the actions discussed in this report. 1. Redemption of securities held by the Civil Service fund. In subsection (k) of 5 U.S.C. 8348, the Congress authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to redeem"
1543," securities or other invested assets of the Civil Service fund before maturity to prevent the amount of public debt from exceeding the debt ceiling. 5 U.S.C. 8348(k) also provides that, before exercising the authority to redeem securities of the Civil Service fund, the Secretary must first determine that a “debt issuance suspension period” exists. 5 U.S.C. 8348(j) also defines a debt issuance suspension period as any period for which the Secretary has determined that obligations of the United States may not"
1544," be issued without exceeding the debt ceiling. “the term ‘debt issuance suspension period’ means any period for which the Secretary of the Treasury determines for purposes of this subsection that the issuance of obligations of the United States may not be made without exceeding the public debt limit.” 2. Suspension of Civil Service fund investments. In subsection (j) of 5 U.S.C. 8348, the Congress authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to suspend additional investment of amounts in the Civil Service fund "
1545,"if such investment cannot be made without causing the amount of public debt to exceed the debt ceiling. This subsection of the statute instructs the Secretary on how to make the Civil Service fund whole after the debt issuance suspension period has ended. 3. Suspension of G-Fund investments. In subsection (g) of 5 U.S.C. 8438, the Congress authorized the Secretary of the Treasury to suspend the issuance of additional amounts of obligations of the United States to the G-Fund if such issuance cannot be made w"
1546,"ithout causing the amount of public debt to exceed the debt ceiling. The subsection contains instructions on how the Secretary is to make the G-Fund whole after the debt ceiling crisis has ended. 4. Issuance of securities not counted toward the debt ceiling. On February 8, 1996, the Congress provided Treasury with the authority (Public Law 104-103) to issue securities in an amount equal to March 1996 social security payments. This statute provided that the securities issued under its provisions were not to "
1547,"be counted against the debt ceiling until March 15, 1996, which was later extended to March 30, 1996. On March 12, 1996, the Congress enacted Public Law 104-115 which exempted government trust fund investments and reinvestments from the debt ceiling until March 30, 1996. We have previously reported on aspects of Treasury’s actions during the 1985 and other debt ceiling crises. Those reports are: 1. A New Approach to the Public Debt Legislation Should Be Considered (FGMSD-79-58, September 7, 1979). 2. Opinio"
1548,"n on the legality of the plan of the Secretary of the Treasury to disinvest the Social Security and other trust funds on November 1, 1985, to permit payments to beneficiaries of these funds (B-221077.2, December 5, 1985). 3. Civil Service Fund: Improved Controls Needed Over Investments (GAO/AFMD-87-17, May 7, 1987). 4. Debt Ceiling Options (GAO/AIMD-96-20R, December 7, 1995). 5. Social Security Trust Funds (GAO/AIMD-96-30R, December 12, 1995). 6. Debt Ceiling Limitations and Treasury Actions (GAO/AIMD-96-38"
1549,"R, January 26, 1996). 7. Information on Debt Ceiling Limitations and Increases (GAO/AIMD-96-49R, February 23, 1996). • develop a chronology of significant events relating to the 1995-1996 debt • evaluate the actions taken during the 1995-1996 debt ceiling crisis in relation to the normal policies and procedures Treasury uses for federal trust fund investments and redemptions, and • analyze the financial aspects of the departures from the normal policies and procedures and assess their legal basis. To develo"
1550,"p a chronology of the significant events involving the 1995-1996 debt ceiling crisis, we obtained and reviewed applicable documents. We also discussed Treasury’s actions during the crisis with Treasury officials. To evaluate the actions taken during the 1995-1996 debt ceiling crisis in relation to the normal policies and procedures Treasury uses for federal trust fund investments, we obtained an overview of the procedures used. For the 15 selected trust funds, which are identified in chapter 3, we examined "
1551,"the significant transactions that affected the trust funds between November 1, 1995, and March 31, 1996. In cases where the procedures were not followed, we obtained documentation and other information to help understand the basis and impact of the alternative procedures that were used. Although Treasury maintains accounts for over 150 different trust funds, we selected for review those with investments in Treasury securities that exceeded $8 billion on November 1, 1995. In addition, we selected the Exchang"
1552,"e Stabilization Fund because Treasury used this fund in previous debt ceiling crises to help raise cash and stay under the debt ceiling. The funds we examined accounted for over 93 percent of the total securities held by these 150 trust funds as of October 31, 1995, and March 31, 1996. To analyze the financial aspects of Treasury’s departures from its normal polices and procedures, we (1) reviewed the methodologies Treasury developed to minimize the impact of such departures on the federal trust funds, (2) "
1553,"quantified the impact of the departures, and (3) assessed whether any interest losses were properly restored. To assess the legal basis of Treasury’s departures from its normal policies and procedures, we identified the applicable legal authorities and determined how Treasury applied them during the debt ceiling crisis. Our evaluation included those authorities relating to (1) issuing and redeeming Treasury securities during a debt issuance suspension period and restoring losses after a debt ceiling crisis "
1554,"has ended, (2) the ability to exchange Treasury securities held by the Civil Service fund for agency securities held by the FFB, and (3) the use of the Exchange Stabilization Fund during a debt ceiling crisis. We also compiled and analyzed applicable source documents, including executive branch legal opinions, memos, and correspondence. We have provided these documents to the Committees’ staffs. We performed our work between November 9, 1995, and July 1, 1996. Our audit was performed in accordance with gene"
1555,"rally accepted government auditing standards. We requested oral comments on a draft of this report from the Secretary of the Treasury or his designee. On August 22, 1996, Treasury officials provided us with oral comments that generally agreed with our findings and conclusions. Their views have been incorporated where appropriate. On August 10, 1993, the Congress raised the debt ceiling to $4.9 trillion, which was expected to fund government operations until spring 1995. In early 1995, analysts concluded tha"
1556,"t the debt ceiling would be reached in October 1995. This set the stage for the 1995-1996 debt ceiling crisis, which was resolved on March 29, 1996, when Congress raised the debt ceiling to $5.5 trillion. The major actions taken by the Congress and the Executive Branch involving the 1995-1996 debt ceiling crisis are shown in table 2.1. Our analysis showed that, during the 1995-1996 debt ceiling crisis, Treasury used its normal investment and redemption procedures to handle the receipts and maturing investme"
1557,"nts and to redeem Treasury securities for 12 of the 15 trust funds we examined. These 12 trust funds accounted for about 65 percent, or about $871 billion, of the $1.3 trillion in Treasury securities held by the federal trust funds on October 31, 1995. The trust funds included in our analysis are listed in table 3.1. Trust funds which are allowed to invest receipts, such as the Social Security funds, normally invest them in nonmarketable Treasury securities. Under normal conditions, Treasury is notified by "
1558,"the appropriate agency of the amount that should be invested or reinvested, and Treasury then makes the investment. In some cases, the actual security that Treasury should purchase is also specified. When a trust fund needs to pay benefits and expenses, Treasury is normally notified of the amount and the date that the disbursement is to be made. Depending on the fund, Treasury may also be notified to redeem specific securities. Based on this information, Treasury redeems a fund’s securities. Between Novembe"
1559,"r 15, 1995, and March 28, 1996, Treasury followed its normal investment and redemption policies for all of the trust funds shown in table 3.1. For example, during this period, Treasury invested about $156.7 billion and redeemed about $115.8 billion of Treasury securities on behalf of the Social Security funds and invested about $7.1 billion and redeemed about $6.8 billion of Treasury securities on behalf of the Military Retirement Fund. The departures from normal investment and redemption procedures involvi"
1560,"ng the other three trust funds (Civil Service fund, G-Fund, and Exchange Stabilization Fund), which held over $370 billion of Treasury securities on October 31, 1995, or about 28 percent of the Treasury securities held by all federal trust funds at that time, are discussed in chapters 4 and 5. During the 1995-1996 debt ceiling crisis, the Secretary of the Treasury redeemed Treasury securities held by the Civil Service fund and suspended the investment of some Civil Service fund receipts. Also, Treasury exch"
1561,"anged Treasury securities held by the Civil Service fund for non-Treasury securities held by the FFB. Subsection (k) of 5 U.S.C. 8348 authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to redeem securities or other invested assets of the Civil Service fund before maturity to prevent the amount of public debt from exceeding the debt ceiling. The statute does not require that early redemptions be made only for the purpose of making Civil Service fund benefit payments. Furthermore, the statute permits the early redempti"
1562,"ons even if the Civil Service fund has adequate cash balances to cover these payments. During November 1995 and February 1996 the Secretary of the Treasury redeemed about $46 billion of the Civil Service fund’s Treasury securities before they were needed to pay for trust fund benefits and expenses. Table 4.1 shows an example of the use of this procedure during the 1995-1996 debt ceiling crisis. Before redeeming Civil Service fund securities earlier than normal, the Secretary must first determine that a “deb"
1563,"t issuance suspension period” exists. Such a period is defined as any period for which the Secretary has determined that obligations of the United States may not be issued without exceeding the debt ceiling. The statute authorizing the debt issuance suspension period and its legislative history are silent as to how to determine the length of a debt issuance suspension period. On November 15, 1995, the Secretary declared a 12-month debt issuance suspension period. On February 14, 1996, the Secretary extended"
1564," this period from 12 to 14 months. The Secretary, in the November 15, 1995, determination, stated that a debt issuance suspension period existed for a period of 12 months “ased on the information that is available to me today.” A memorandum to the Secretary from Treasury’s General Counsel provided the Secretary a rationale to support his determination. The memorandum noted that based on the actions of the Congress and the President and on public statements by both these parties, there was a significant impa"
1565,"sse that made it unlikely that a statute raising the debt ceiling could be enacted. Furthermore, the positions of the President and the Congress were so firm that it seemed unlikely that an agreement could be reached before the next election, which was 12 months away. The Secretary extended the debt issuance suspension period by 2 months on February 14, 1996. Treasury’s General Counsel again advised the Secretary concerning the reasons underlying the extension and noted that nothing had changed since Novemb"
1566,"er to indicate that the impasse was any closer to being resolved. The General Counsel further reasoned that it would take until January 1997 for a newly elected President or a new Congress to be able to enact legislation raising the debt ceiling. On November 15, 1995, the Secretary authorized the redemption of $39.8 billion of the Civil Service fund’s Treasury securities, and on February 14, 1996, authorized the redemption of another $6.4 billion of the fund’s Treasury securities. The total, $46 billion of "
1567,"authorized redemptions was determined based on (1) the 14-month debt issuance suspension period determination made by the Secretary (November 15, 1995, through January 15, 1997) and (2) the estimated monthly Civil Service fund benefit payments. Treasury considered appropriate factors in determining the amount of Treasury securities to redeem early. About $39.8 billion of these securities were redeemed between November 15 and 30, 1995. Then, in December 1995, Treasury’s cash position improved for a few days,"
1568," primarily because of the receipt of quarterly estimated tax payments due in December. This inflow of cash enabled Treasury to reinvest, in late December 1995, about $21.2 billion in securities that had the same terms and conditions as those that were redeemed in November. However, because of Treasury’s deteriorating cash position, these securities were again redeemed by the end of December. Finally, between February 15 and 20, 1996, an additional $6.4 billion in Treasury securities held by the Civil Servic"
1569,"e fund were redeemed. Subsection (j) of 5 U.S.C. 8348 authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to suspend additional investment of amounts in the Civil Service fund if such investment cannot be made without causing the amount of public debt to exceed the debt ceiling. Between November 15, 1995, and March 29, 1996, the Civil Service fund had about $20 billion in receipts. In all but one case, Treasury used its normal investment policies to handle the trust fund’s requests to invest these receipts. The except"
1570,"ion involved the trust fund’s December 31, 1995, receipt from Treasury of a $14 billion semiannual interest payment on the fund’s securities portfolio. The Secretary determined that investing these funds in additional Treasury securities would have caused the public debt to exceed the debt ceiling and, therefore, suspended the investment of these receipts. During the debt ceiling crisis, about $6.3 billion of the Civil Service fund’s uninvested receipts were used to pay for the trust fund’s benefits and exp"
1571,"enses. Normally, government trust funds that are authorized to invest in Treasury securities do not have uninvested cash—all of a trust fund’s receipts that are not needed to pay for benefits and expenses are invested. In the case of the Civil Service fund, when a redemption is necessary, Treasury’s stated policy is to redeem the securities with the shortest maturity first. Should a group of securities have the same maturity date, but different interest rates, the securities with the lowest interest rate ar"
1572,"e redeemed first. During previous debt ceiling crises, Treasury’s actions resulted in uninvested cash. The uninvested cash not only required restoring lost investment interest but also affected the normal method Treasury uses to determine securities to redeem to pay for trust fund benefits and expenses. Accordingly, in 1989, Treasury developed policies and procedures for determining when uninvested trust fund cash should be used to pay trust fund benefits and expenses and used these policies during the 1995"
1573,"-1996 debt ceiling crisis. Overall, Treasury’s policy continued to be to redeem the securities with the lowest interest rate first. However, in making this determination, uninvested cash is treated as though it had been invested in Treasury securities. These procedures are presented in table 4.2. The following illustrates how this policy was implemented. On January 2, 1996, Treasury needed about $2.6 billion to pay fund benefits and expenses for the Civil Service fund. To make these payments, it redeemed or"
1574," used • $43 million of the fund’s Treasury securities which carried an interest rate of 5-7/8 percent and matured on June 30, 1996; • $815 million of the fund’s Treasury securities which carried an interest rate of 6 percent and matured on June 30, 1996 (these securities were redeemed first since the $815 million had been invested prior to December 31, 1995); and • $1.7 billion of uninvested cash since the uninvested cash, if normal procedures had been followed, would have been invested on December 31, 1995"
1575,", in 6 percent securities maturing on June 30, 1996. On February 14, 1996, about $8.6 billion in Treasury securities held by the Civil Service fund were exchanged for agency securities held by FFB. FFBused the Treasury securities it received in this exchange to repay some of its borrowings from Treasury. Since the Treasury securities provided by the Civil Service fund had counted against the debt ceiling, reducing these borrowings resulted in a corresponding reduction in the public debt subject to the debt "
1576,"ceiling. Thus, Treasury could borrow additional cash from the public. The decision to exchange Treasury securities held by the Civil Service fund for non-Treasury securities held by FFB required Treasury to determine (1) which non-Treasury securities were eligible for the exchange and (2) how to value the securities so that the exchange was fair to both the Civil Service fund and FFB. Treasury’s objective was to ensure that the securities that were exchanged were of equal value and that the Civil Service fu"
1577,"nd would not incur any long-term loss. Regarding the first issue, the law governing the Civil Service fund does not specifically identify which securities issued by an agency can be purchased. However, the laws authorizing the Postal Service and the Tennessee Valley Authority to issue securities state that these securities are lawful investments of the federal trust funds (39 U.S.C. 2005(d)(3) and 16 U.S.C. 831n-4(d)). Regarding the second issue, the Treasury securities held by the Civil Service fund and th"
1578,"e non-Treasury securities held by FFB had different terms and conditions; thus complicating the task of valuing the securities. For example, most of the Treasury securities held by the Civil Service fund mature on June 30 of a given year and can be redeemed at par when needed to pay benefits and expenses. None of the agency securities held by FFB, and selected by Treasury for the exchange transaction, matured on June 30 and, if redeemed before maturity, the redemption price would be based on market interest"
1579," rates. Because the effects of these differences can be significant, a methodology was needed to determine the proper valuation for the securities that would be exchanged. Therefore, Treasury used a generally accepted methodology to compute the value of each portfolio. Examples of factors used in this methodology include (1) the current market rates for outstanding Treasury securities at the time of the exchange, (2) the probability of changing interest rates, (3) the probability of the agency paying off th"
1580,"e debt early, and (4) the premium that the market would provide to a security that could be redeemed at par regardless of the market interest rates. Treasury obtained the opinion of an independent third party to determine whether its valuations were accurate. Our review of the consultant’s report showed that the consultant (1) identified the characteristics of each security to be exchanged, (2) reviewed the pricing methodology to be used, (3) calculated the value of each security based on the pricing method"
1581,"ology, and (4) reviewed the terms and conditions of the exchange agreement. The consultant concluded that the exchange was fair. Due to the complexity of the consultant’s computations and the large number of securities exchanged, we did not independently verify the consultant’s conclusion. The factors included in Treasury’s methodology and the consultant’s analysis were appropriate for assessing the exchange. Treasury’s actions during the 1995-1996 debt ceiling crisis involving the Civil Service fund were i"
1582,"n accordance with statutory authority provided by the Congress and the administrative policies and procedures established by Treasury. These actions helped the government to avoid default on its obligations and to stay within the debt ceiling. Specifically, we conclude the following: • Based on the information available to the Secretary when the November 15, 1995, and February 14, 1996, debt issuance suspension period determinations were made, the Secretary’s determinations were not unreasonable. • Treasury"
1583, considered appropriate factors in determining the amount of Treasury securities to redeem early. • The Secretary acted within the authorities provided by law when suspending the investment of Civil Service fund receipts. • Treasury’s policies and procedures regarding the uninvested funds are designed primarily to facilitate the restoration of fund losses when Treasury does not follow its normal investment and redemption policies and procedures. They also provide an adequate basis for considering the uninve
1584,"sted receipts in determining the securities to be redeemed to pay Civil Service fund benefits and expenses during the debt ceiling crisis. • The agency securities used in the exchange between the Civil Service fund and FFB were lawful investments for the Civil Service fund. In addition, by having an independent verification of the value of the exchanged securities, Treasury helped to ensure that both the Civil Service fund and FFB were treated equitably in the exchange. In addition to the actions involving "
1585,"the Civil Service fund, during the 1995-1996 debt ceiling crisis, the Secretary of the Treasury (1) suspended the investment of G-Fund receipts and (2) did not reinvest some of the Exchange Stabilization Fund’s maturing securities. Also, the Congress authorized Treasury to issue selected securities that were temporarily exempted from being counted against the debt ceiling. These actions also assisted Treasury in staying under the debt ceiling. Subsection (g) of 5 U.S.C. 8438 authorizes the Secretary of the "
1586,"Treasury to suspend the issuance of additional amounts of obligations of the United States to the G-Fund if such issuance cannot be made without causing the amount of public debt to exceed the debt ceiling. Each day, between November 15, 1995, and March 18, 1996, Treasury determined the amount of funds that the G-Fund would be allowed to invest in Treasury securities and suspended the investment of G-Fund receipts that would have resulted in exceeding the debt ceiling. On November 15, 1995, when the Secreta"
1587,"ry determined a debt issuance suspension period, the G-Fund held about $21.6 billion of Treasury securities maturing on that day. In order to meet its cash needs, Treasury did not reinvest about $18 billion of these securities. Until March 19, 1996, the amount of the G-Fund’s receipts that Treasury invested changed daily depending on the amount of the government’s outstanding debt. Although Treasury can accurately predict the result of some of these factors affecting the outstanding debt, the result of othe"
1588,"rs cannot be precisely determined until they occur. For example, the amount of securities that Treasury will issue to the public from an auction can be determined some days in advance because Treasury can control the amount that will actually be issued. On the other hand, the amount of savings bonds that will be issued and of securities that will be issued to, or redeemed by, various government trust funds are difficult to predict. Because of these difficulties, Treasury needed a way to ensure that the gove"
1589,"rnment’s trust fund activities did not cause the debt ceiling to be exceeded and also to maintain normal trust fund investment and redemption policies. To do this, each day during the debt ceiling crisis, Treasury • calculated the amount of public debt subject to the debt ceiling, excluding the funds that the G-Fund would normally invest; • determined the amount of G-Fund receipts that could safely be invested without exceeding the debt ceiling and invested this amount in Treasury securities; and • suspende"
1590,"d investment of the G-Fund’s remaining funds. For example, on January 17, 1996, excluding G-Fund transactions, Treasury issued about $17 billion and redeemed about $11.4 billion of securities that counted against the debt ceiling. Since Treasury had been at the debt ceiling the previous day, Treasury could not invest the entire amount ($21.8 billion) that the G-Fund had requested without exceeding the debt ceiling. As a result, the $5.6 billion difference was added to the amount of uninvested G-Fund receipt"
1591,"s and raised the amount of uninvested funds for the G-Fund to $7.2 billion on that date. Interest on the uninvested funds was not paid until the debt ceiling crisis ended. On several occasions between February 21 and March 12, 1996, Treasury did not reinvest some of the maturing securities held by the Exchange Stabilization Fund. Because the Fund’s securities are considered part of the government’s outstanding debt subject to the debt ceiling, when the Secretary does not reinvest the Fund’s maturing securit"
1592,"ies, the government’s outstanding debt is reduced. The purpose of the Exchange Stabilization Fund is to help provide a stable system of monetary exchange rates. The law establishing the Fund authorizes the Secretary to invest Fund balances not needed for program purposes in obligations of the federal government. This law also gives the Secretary the sole discretion for determining when, and if, the excess funds will be invested. During previous debt ceiling crises, Treasury exercised the option of not reinv"
1593,"esting the Fund’s maturing Treasury securities, which enabled Treasury to raise additional cash and helped the government stay within the debt ceiling limitation. In other actions to stay within the debt ceiling, the Congress passed legislation allowing Treasury to issue some Treasury securities that were temporarily exempted from being counted against the debt ceiling. During January 1996, Treasury’s cash position continued to deteriorate. The Secretary notified the Congress that, unless the debt ceiling w"
1594,"as raised before the end of February 1996, Social Security and other benefit payments could not be made in March 1996. Under normal procedures, monthly Social Security benefits are paid by direct deposit on the third day of each month. Because checks take a period of time to clear, Treasury only redeems securities equal to the amount of benefits paid by direct deposit on this date. The securities necessary to pay the benefits made by check are redeemed on the third and fourth business day after the payments"
1595," are made. This sequencing is designed to allow the fund to earn interest during the average period that benefit checks are outstanding but not cashed (the so-called “float period”). For Social Security payments, the check float period is about 3.6 days. According to Treasury officials, they may need to raise the actual cash needed to pay these benefits several days before the payments are made since the check float is an average. For example, some checks may clear the next business day while others may cle"
1596,"ar several days after the securities are redeemed. Under normal conditions, this is not a problem since Treasury is free to issue the securities to raise the necessary cash without worrying about when the trust fund securities will be redeemed. To ensure that these benefits would be paid on time, on February 8, 1996, the Congress provided Treasury with the authority (Public Law 104-103) to issue securities in an amount equal to the March 1996 Social Security payments. Further, this statute provided that the"
1597," securities issued under its provisions were not to be counted against the debt ceiling until March 15, 1996, which was later extended to March 30, 1996. The special legislation did not create any long-term borrowing authority for Treasury since it only allowed Treasury to issue securities that, in effect, would be redeemed in March 1996. However, it allowed Treasury to raise significant amounts of cash. This occurred because March 15, 1996—the date initially established in the special legislation for which"
1598," this debt would be counted against the debt ceiling—was later than the date that most of the securities would have been redeemed from the trust fund under normal procedures. On February 23, 1996, Treasury issued these securities. Following normal redemption policies, Treasury redeemed about $29 billion of Treasury securities from the Social Security fund for the March benefit payments. Since the majority of the Social Security fund payments are made at the beginning of the month, by March 7, 1996, Treasury"
1599," had redeemed about $28.3 billion of the trust fund’s Treasury securities. This lowered the amount of debt subject to the limit, and Treasury was able to issue securities to the public for cash or invest trust funds receipts—as long as they were issued before March 15, 1996. Therefore, Treasury could raise an additional $28.3 billion in cash because of the difference in timing between when the securities could be issued (March 15, 1996) and when they were redeemed to pay fund benefits and expenses. Accordin"
1600,"g to Treasury officials, during the 1995-1996 debt ceiling crisis, this flexibility allowed Treasury to raise about $12 billion of cash. The remaining capacity was used to invest trust fund receipts. According to Treasury officials, this was the first time that Treasury had been provided with this kind of authority during a debt ceiling crisis. Providing this legislation was important because during a debt ceiling crisis, Treasury may not be free to issue securities in advance to raise the necessary cash. W"
1601,"ithout this legislation, Treasury would have had at least the following three choices, of which only the first would have been practical. • Trust fund securities could have been redeemed earlier than normal. This action was used in the 1985 debt ceiling crisis to make benefit payments for the Social Security and Civil Service funds. In exercising this option, securities could have been redeemed on the same day that a like amount of securities were issued to the public for cash; these issues would have had n"
1602,"o effect on the amount of debt subject to the debt ceiling. However, since the securities would have been redeemed earlier than normal, the trust fund would have lost interest income. In the case of the Social Security funds, such a loss could not be restored without special legislation. • The government could have not paid the benefits. This option would have resulted in the government not meeting an obligation, which it has never done. • Treasury could have issued additional securities, which would have c"
1603,"aused the debt ceiling to be exceeded, in violation of the law, and raised legal issues concerning the validity of the securities as obligations of the United States. According to Treasury officials, Treasury has never issued securities that would cause the debt ceiling to be exceeded. We reviewed Treasury reports and confirmed that, at least since July 1, 1954, that this statement was correct. On March 12, 1996, the Congress enacted Public Law 104-115 which exempted government trust fund investments and re"
1604,"investments from the debt ceiling until March 30, 1996. Under the authority provided by this statute, between March 13 and March 29, 1996, Treasury issued about $58.2 billion in Treasury securities to government trust funds as investments of their receipts or reinvestments of their maturing securities. In addition, using its normal redemption policies, Treasury redeemed significant amounts of Treasury securities, which counted against the debt ceiling, held by various government trust funds to pay for benef"
1605,"its and expenses. Thus, Treasury was provided the ability to raise significant amounts of cash because these actions reduced the amount of public debt subject to the debt ceiling. To designate government trust fund investments that were not considered subject to the debt ceiling, Treasury issued special Treasury securities. This enabled Treasury, at the time a trust fund redemption was made, to identify whether the redemption lowered the amount of outstanding debt subject to the debt ceiling. For example, o"
1606,"n March 12, 1996, the Civil Service fund invested about $100 million in Treasury securities that were counted against the debt ceiling and on March 14, 1996, invested about $184 million in Treasury securities that were exempt. Therefore, if on March 19, 1996, using normal procedures, Treasury redeemed the trust fund’s Treasury securities to pay for benefits and expenses, it would know whether, or how much of, the redemption reduced outstanding securities subject to the debt ceiling. A similar determination "
1607,"could also be made for securities that were reinvested. For example, on March 12, 1996, the Postal Service fund had about $1.2 billion in maturing securities that were subject to the debt ceiling. These funds were reinvested in securities that matured the next business day and were not subject to the debt ceiling. As a result, the amount of debt subject to the debt ceiling decreased by this amount, thus enabling Treasury to issue additional securities to the public for cash. On March 14, 1996, this reinvest"
1608,"ment matured and was again reinvested. This transaction did not change the amount of securities subject to the debt ceiling because the maturing securities did not count against the debt ceiling when they were issued. During the 1995-1996 debt ceiling crisis, Treasury acted in accordance with statutory authorities when it (1) suspended some investments of the G-Fund, (2) exercised its discretion in not reinvesting some of the Exchange Stabilization Fund’s maturing Treasury securities, and (3) issued certain"
1609," Treasury securities to government trust funds without counting them toward the debt ceiling. During the 1995-1996 debt ceiling crisis, Treasury did not exceed the $4.9 trillion debt ceiling limitation established in August 1993. However, Treasury’s actions during the crisis resulted in the government incurring about $138.9 billion in additional debt that would normally have been considered as subject to the debt ceiling. Several of Treasury’s actions during the debt ceiling crisis also resulted in interest"
1610," losses to certain government trust funds. Our analysis showed that, because of several of the actions discussed in chapters 4 and 5, the government incurred about $138.9 billion in debt that Treasury would have normally included in calculating debt subject to the debt ceiling. The methods of financing this additional debt are presented in table 6.1. It was necessary for Treasury to issue debt to raise the funds necessary to honor authorized government obligations. Consequently, actions by the Congress and "
1611,"Treasury during the 1995-1996 debt ceiling crisis allowed Treasury to avoid defaulting on government obligations while staying under the debt ceiling. On March 29, 1996, legislation was enacted to raise the debt ceiling to $5.5 trillion, which ended the debt ceiling crisis. The legislation enabled Treasury to resume its normal issuance and redemption of trust fund securities and, where statutorily allowed, to begin restoring the interest losses government trust funds incurred during the debt ceiling crisis."
1612," Passage of this legislation was inevitable; without it, the federal government’s ability to operate was jeopardized. The level of the public debt is determined by the government’s prior spending and revenue decisions along with the performance of the economy. In 1979, we reported that debt ceiling increases were needed simply to allow borrowing adequate to finance deficit budgets which had already been approved. The Civil Service fund incurred $995 million in interest losses during the 1995-1996 debt ceili"
1613,"ng crisis. In 5 U.S.C. 8348, the Congress recognized that the Civil Service fund would be adversely affected if Treasury exercised its authority to redeem Treasury securities earlier than normal or failed to promptly invest trust fund receipts. To ensure that the fund would not have long-term losses, the Congress provided Treasury with the authority to restore such losses once a debt ceiling crisis was resolved. Under this statute, Treasury took the following actions once the debt ceiling crisis had ended. "
1614,"• Treasury reinvested about $46 billion in Treasury securities which had the same interest rates and maturities as those redeemed during November 1995 and February 1996. We verified that, after this transaction, the Civil Service fund’s investment portfolio was, in effect, the same as it would have been had Treasury not redeemed these securities early. • Treasury issued about $250.2 million in Treasury securities to cover the interest that would have been earned through December 31, 1995, on the securities "
1615,"that were redeemed in November 1995. Treasury issued these securities to replace securities that would otherwise have been issued to the fund if normal investment polices had been followed. • Treasury issued about $33.7 million in Treasury securities associated with the benefit payments made from the Civil Service fund’s uninvested cash balances from January 1996 through March 29, 1996. We verified that, in completing this transaction, Treasury calculated the amount of securities that would have been contai"
1616,"ned in the Civil Service fund’s portfolio had normal investment and redemption policies been followed. Also, between December 31, 1995, and March 29, 1996, the Civil Service fund’s Treasury securities that were redeemed early did not earn about $711 million in interest, as required by law. Treasury restored this lost interest on June 30, 1996, when the semiannual interest payment for these securities would have been paid if normal procedures had been followed. Between November 15, 1995, and March 29, 1996, "
1617,"the G-Fund lost about $255 million in interest because its excess funds were not fully invested. As discussed in chapter 5, the amount of funds invested for the G-Fund fluctuated daily during the debt ceiling crisis, with the investment of some funds being suspended. In 5 U.S.C. 8438(g) the Congress recognized that the G-Fund would be adversely affected if Treasury exercised its authority to suspend G-Fund investments. To ensure that the Fund would not have long-term losses, the Congress provided Treasury w"
1618,"ith the authority to restore such losses once a debt ceiling crisis was resolved. When the debt ceiling was raised, Treasury restored the lost interest on the G-Fund’s uninvested funds. Consequently, the G-Fund was fully compensated for its interest losses during the 1995-1996 debt ceiling crisis. During the 1995-1996 debt ceiling crisis, the Exchange Stabilization Fund lost about $1.2 million in interest. As discussed in chapter 5, these losses occurred because Treasury, to avoid exceeding the debt ceiling"
1619,", did not reinvest some of the maturing Treasury securities held by the Exchange Stabilization Fund. Treasury officials said that the Fund’s losses could not be restored without special legislation authorizing Treasury to do so. They said further that such legislation was not provided during the 1995-1996 debt ceiling crisis. Consequently, without specific legal authority, Treasury cannot restore the Exchange Stabilization Fund’s losses. As of August 1, 1996, Treasury had no plans to seek such statutory aut"
1620,"hority. During the 1995-1996 debt ceiling crisis, the federal government’s debt increased substantially. Under normal procedures, this debt would have been considered in calculating whether the government was within the debt ceiling. Regarding restoration of the Civil Service fund, Treasury restored the securities that would have been issued had a debt issuance suspension period not occurred and the interest losses. Treasury’s restoration actions will eliminate any long-term losses to the Civil Service fund"
1621,". Also, Treasury restored the G-Fund’s interest losses, ensuring that the G-Fund will not incur any long-term adverse affects from Treasury’s actions. Regarding the Exchange Stabilization Fund, Treasury cannot restore the $1.2 million in interest losses resulting from the Secretary’s decision not to reinvest the Fund’s maturing Treasury securities without special statutory authority."
1622,"Federal law has required broadcasters to identify sponsors of radio program content since 1927.requirements have been amended to expand and further define the requirements. Since that time, sponsorship identification In 1934, the Communications Act established FCC and gave it authority to administer sponsorship identification requirements for broadcasters, among other responsibilities, as well as creating additional sponsorship identification requirements. In 1944, FCC adopted rules implementing the sponsor"
1623,"ship identification requirements created in 1934. These rules, which required a full and fair disclosure of the sponsor’s identity, remain largely unchanged. In 1960, the Communications Act was amended to redefine the situations in which broadcasters must identify program sponsors. The need for this change arose due largely to the payola scandals of the late 1950s. The conference report accompanying the 1960 act included 27 case examples that were included to provide guidance on how the committee believed t"
1624,"he sponsorship identification requirements should be applied. In 1963, FCC adopted regulations implementing the 1960 amendments and provided 36 sponsorship identification case examples as guidance. In 1969, FCC adopted regulations applying sponsorship identification requirements modeled on the broadcast rules to cablecasting by community antenna television systems (CATV). Cablecasting was defined as “programming distributed on a CATV system which has been originated by the CATV operator or by another entity"
1625,", exclusive of broadcast signals.” In 1972, FCC updated its regulations to apply sponsorship identification requirements to programming under the exclusive control of cable television operators. In 1975, FCC clarified the meaning of its 1944 requirement for full and fair disclosure of the identity of the sponsor, modifying its regulations to make clear that broadcasters and cablecasters are expected to look beyond the immediate source of payment where they have reason to know (or could have known through th"
1626,"e exercise of reasonable diligence) that the purchaser of the advertisement is acting as an agent for another, and to identify the true sponsor. In 1991, FCC adopted rules requiring visual and audible sponsorship identification announcement for televised advertisements concerning political issues. In 1992, FCC amended the requirements for advertisements concerning candidates by removing the requirement for an audible announcement and adopting specific criteria for a visual announcement. consist of letters a"
1627,"t least 4 percent of the vertical picture height and that the statement be shown for at least 4 seconds. 7 FCC Rcd. 678 (1992). 7 FCC Rcd. 1616 (1992) (rule is codified at 47 C.F.R. §1212(a)(2)(ii)). There have been no changes to the sponsorship identification statutes or regulations since 1992, although there have been more recent FCC cases affecting their interpretation and application. These sponsorship identification requirements generally apply to different types of advertising. Table 1 shows the range"
1628," of different types of content that often require a sponsorship announcement, including commercial advertising where the sponsor is not typically apparent and political or controversial issue advertising where an announcement must meet additional requirements. Presently, the Communications Act, as implemented by FCC, requires broadcasters and cablecasters to disclose to their listeners or viewers if content has been aired in exchange for money, services, or other inducement. For commercial content, such as "
1629,"advertisements, embedded advertisements, and video news releases, the announcement must be aired when the content is broadcast and can be either a visual or an audible announcement. Political and controversial content must also have either type of announcement when aired on television, but candidate advertisements have specific visual requirements. In addition, when anyone provides or promises to provide money, services, or other inducement to include programming in a broadcast, that fact must be disclosed "
1630,"to the broadcaster or cablecaster. Both the person providing or promising to provide the money, services, or other benefits and the recipient must make this disclosure so that the station can broadcast the sponsorship identification announcement. The general public and to a lesser extent other sources, such as media public interest groups, file complaints with FCC about violations. Because of the high number of broadcasters and cablecasters, FCC relies on the public as an important source of information abo"
1631,"ut compliance with The public is able to assist in monitoring broadcasters’ requirements. compliance with requirements because, as we will describe later in our finding on requirements, broadcasters are required to maintain a publicly available inspection file. This publicly available file lists pertinent information, such as quarterly issues and programs list, which describes the programs that have provided the station’s most significant treatment of community issues during the preceding 3 months. The publ"
1632,"ic can access the public inspection file to check and monitor broadcasters’ compliance and service. As part of its enforcement process, FCC investigates complaints about potential violations by broadcasters and cable operators of the statutes and rules it administers, including sponsorship identification complaints. Two bureaus within FCC—the Consumer and Governmental Affairs Bureau (CGB) and the Enforcement Bureau—are primarily responsible for developing and implementing procedures for processing complaint"
1633,"s, conducting investigations, and taking enforcement actions. As part of its role of responding to consumer complaints and inquiries, CGB initially processes the majority of the complaints FCC receives. To the extent that a complaint is defective, for example, for failing to identify a particular broadcast, including its date, time of day, and the station on which it was aired, CGB will dismiss the complaint as incomplete and advise the complainant accordingly, providing guidance as to what information shou"
1634,"ld be included in a complaint. CGB forwards most complaints deemed complete to the Enforcement Bureau, but some complaints, including political sponsorship identification complaints go to the Media Bureau for further investigation. When FCC discovers violations it can take various enforcement actions dependent on the seriousness of the violation, such as admonishment, monetary forfeiture, or not renewing a broadcaster’s license. 2 U.S.C. § 441d. the advertisements. The disclaimer requirements apply to any k"
1635,"ind of communications media carrying public political advertising and are not limited to broadcast or cablecast advertisements. Similar to FCC, FEC initiates most enforcement activity pursuant to complaints received from the general public, including individuals and organizations associated with federal political campaigns. Complaints are filed with the Office of Complaints Examination and Legal Administration (CELA), which reviews the complaint to determine if the complaint states facts, identifies the par"
1636,"ties involved, and provides or identifies supporting documentation. If the complaints are deemed sufficient, CELA informs the complainants that they will be notified once the case has been resolved. If FEC discovers violations, enforcement can include negotiated corrective action, including civil penalties, or other Commission initiated legal action seeking judicially imposed civil penalties or other relief. As previously stated, sponsorship identification statutes and regulations require broadcasters and c"
1637,"ablecasters to identify commercial content— usually an advertisement, an embedded advertisement, or a video news release (VNR) that has been broadcast in exchange for money or payment in-kind. According to most broadcasters we spoke with, commercial content is fairly straightforward to identify, and they are accustomed to dealing with such content and report that compliance is manageable. For content considered political or discussing a controversial public issue, requirements, enforced by FCC and FEC, are "
1638,"more extensive and require more detailed on-air announcements and tracking of all related communications and agreements in a public file for FCC. According to FCC, commercial advertisements do not always require a sponsorship announcement. FCC does not require an announcement when an obvious connection exists between the content and sponsor, such as with a standard commercial advertisement. For all commercial advertisements where the true sponsor is not apparent, even for infomercials that may be 30 minutes"
1639," or longer, FCC requires a written or verbal announcement to occur only once during the program. This announcement must fully and fairly disclose the true identity of those who are paying for the advertisement. In addition, whenever an individual, such as a deejay, receives money or payment in-kind for airing specific content or favorably discussing a specific product a sponsorship announcement must be made. Therefore, station employees must disclose such transactions to the station. Thus, if a record compa"
1640,"ny or its agent pays a deejay to play records or talk favorably about an artist or record on the air, and he does so, the result is considered sponsored content. FCC guidance directs that the deejay must reveal the payment to the broadcaster and a sponsorship announcement must be made when the content goes on-the-air. According to broadcasters, industry trade groups, and others we spoke with, compliance with these standards and requirements is not a problem because the requirements are part of their standar"
1641,"d review process. Embedded advertisements—typically, when a commercial product is provided without charge to use in entertainment programming—may not require a sponsorship announcement if they are reasonably related to the show. Since many consumers now record shows or change the channel during commercials, broadcasters have increased their use of embedded advertising. However, a sponsorship announcement is not required every time a product appears in a program. For example, FCC’s guidance describes scenari"
1642,"os in which a manufacturer provides a car to a television show for a detective to chase and capture the villain, and states that the use of the car alone would not require a sponsorship announcement. In this scenario the use of the car could be considered “reasonably related” to its use in the show. However, in the same scenario, if a character also made a promotional statement about the specific brand—such as its being fast—FCC requires a written or verbal sponsorship announcement sometime during the progr"
1643,"am. According to FCC’s guidance, in this second scenario, the specific mention of the brand may go beyond what would be “reasonably related” to its use in the show. The reasonably related standard requires some assessment of the content. Broadcasters told us they have processes in place to review content on their networks to determine if a program needs a sponsorship announcement for an embedded advertisement. VNRs are another type of commercial content which may require a sponsorship announcement. VNRs are"
1644," pre-packaged news stories that may include only film footage or may also include suggested scripts. However, broadcasters do not always use a VNR in its entirety but may use portions of the video. For example, if a news story about car manufacturing could benefit by showing video from inside a manufacturing plant, a broadcaster may use footage from a VNR because it cannot easily access the interior of a plant during its operations. According to FCC, it requires broadcasters to air a sponsorship announcemen"
1645,"t when using VNRs, even when they are provided free of charge, under the same circumstances as it would require a sponsorship identification for other programming. When a film or a story was provided by a third party and it conveys value to the station, it must have either a verbal or written sponsorship announcement, if it is furnished in consideration for identification of a product or brand name beyond what is reasonable related to the broadcast.FCC issued in its 2005 Public Notice concerning the use of "
1646,"VNRs. In that Public Notice, FCC reminded broadcasters of their obligation to comply with sponsorship identification requirements when using VNRs and that there must be an announcement to the audience about the source and This is an update to the guidance sponsorship of the VNR.with FCC’s position and believe it should treat VNRs similar to press releases and not require a sponsorship announcement if a broadcaster did not pay for the material and uses only a portion of its content. For example, in the previ"
1647,"ous illustration, a broadcaster may use VNR footage, because it does not have access to the interior of a car manufacturing plant. In such instances, FCC requires broadcasters to make an announcement that could appear on the screen during the footage stating, “Footage furnished by ABC Motor Company” or as a verbal or written announcement at the end of the program. Broadcasters we spoke with had differing opinions on whether to use VNRs. While one broadcaster believes it should be up to the news program to d"
1648,"etermine if an announcement is needed, others we spoke with were divided about whether to use VNRs with a sponsorship announcement or to never use VNRs at all. Some broadcasters and others reported the use of VNRs has been increasing, in part, because of tighter news budgets and the need to fill airtime. In recent years, instances of VNR use without proper credit have been reported and investigated by FCC; we will discuss these instances later in our report. Nevertheless, some broadcasters disagree Most bro"
1649,"adcasters we spoke with indicated the sponsorship identification requirements are generally manageable as part of their review processes. As previously indicated, broadcasters told us they have processes in place to review the different types of advertisements and other programming aired. These reviews check to ensure the advertisement or programming meets FCC requirements, including the sponsorship identification requirements. Since it is part of the standard content review process and the sponsorship iden"
1650,"tification requirements have not changed for many years, broadcasters told us the requirements were not difficult to meet. Political content and content discussing a controversial issue of public importance are subject to all requirements that commercial content must follow but have additional on-air and public file sponsorship identification requirements. Advertisements that contain political content or involve public discussion of a controversial issue must include a sponsorship announcement at the beginn"
1651,"ing or end of the program. If the program is longer than 5 minutes, the announcement must be made at both the beginning and end of the program. For broadcast television and political content discussing a candidate, a visual announcement must be made that is at least equal to 4 percent of the screen height must exist and lasts 4 seconds. For broadcast radio, there must be an audible announcement. 47 C.F.R. §§ 73.1212(e) (for broadcast material), 76.1701(e) (for cablecast material). post a majority of their p"
1652,"ublic file on this website by February 2013, making the file more easily accessible to the general public. According to FEC, paid political communications supporting or opposing candidates for election to federal office, which include radio and television advertisements, are required to contain what are called “disclaimer statements.”statutes and regulations. Television and radio political advertisements authorized and paid for by a federal candidate or his or her campaign committee or another organization "
1653,"must include a disclaimer spoken by the candidate identifying him or herself and stating that he or she approved the advertisement, as well as a statement identifying the organization that paid for the advertisement. Television advertisements must either show the candidate making the disclaimer statement or show a clearly identifiable image of the candidate during the statement. They must also include a clearly readable written statement similar to the verbal statement that appears at the end of the adverti"
1654,"sement for at least 4 seconds. Certain advertisements not approved by a candidate or his or her committee must identify who paid for the advertisement, state that it was not authorized by any candidate or candidate’s committee, and list the permanent street address, telephone number, or World Wide Web address of the person who paid for the communication. In addition to monitoring compliance with these disclaimer requirements, FEC serves as a repository for campaign finance data for candidates for political "
1655,"office. Just as stations licensed by FCC are required to preserve records to establish that they are meeting their responsibility, among others, to treat political candidates running for the same public office equally, FEC oversees requirements to report campaign funding and expenditures. Individuals, political committees, and other organizations supporting or opposing candidates for federal office are required to report campaign funding and expenditures for certain activities, which can include payments ma"
1656,"de for purchasing political advertising and information on the funds they receive for advertisements. This reporting is done to assure that money is being collected and spent in accordance with federal election campaign law. The reporting requirements vary according to the purpose of the advertisement, who paid for the advertisement, and whether it is the product of a coordinated effort between political committees and others. The political committees are always subject to the reporting requirements and mus"
1657,"t submit itemized reports to FEC showing all of their expenditures, including advertising. Political committees must also submit itemized reports to FEC showing contributions received, including contribution amounts, dates, and contributor names and addresses. FEC has also required organizations and individuals to report expenditures for political advertisements and donations of $1,000 or more made for certain political advertisements, called “electioneering communications,” which are related to elections f"
1658,"or federal office and broadcasts within specified time frames before the elections. As described in FEC’s guidance, FEC administers specific reporting requirements for those making electioneering communications, which can include political advertisements on television or radio. Specifically, electioneering communications refers to any broadcast, cable, or satellite communication that refers to a candidate for federal office and is distributed within specific time frames before a federal general election or "
1659,"Political advertisements that do not meet these federal primary election. specifications are not subject to these reporting requirements. Once payments for electioneering communications, including television or radio advertisements, exceeds $10,000 in any calendar year, those responsible for them must report payments and the sources of funds used to FEC within 24 hours of each broadcast.things, identify: Each report must, among other the person or organization that made the payments, including their princip"
1660,"al place of business; any person sharing or exercising direction or control over the activities of the person who made the payments; the amount of each payment in excess of $200, the payment dates, and the payee; all candidates referred to in the advertisements and the elections in which they are candidates; and the name and address of each person who donated $1,000 or more since the first day of the preceding calendar year to those responsible for the advertisement. According to FEC, “coordinated communica"
1661,"tions” are contributions for communications that are coordinated with a candidate or party committee. These contributions are subject to amount limitations, source prohibitions, and reporting requirements under the Federal Election Campaign Act. coordinated, also known as independent expenditures, have requirements to report itemized payments for the advertisements that are triggered if they expressly advocate the election or defeat of a clearly identified candidate. While independent expenditures are not s"
1662,"ubject to spending limitations, they are subject to the reporting requirements. Those responsible for the payments must report: Expenditures for communications that are not a statement indicating whether each payment was in support of, or in their names, mailing addresses, occupations, and employers; the name and mailing address of the person to whom payments were made; the amount, date, and purpose of each payment; opposition to, a candidate, together with the candidate’s name and office sought; the identi"
1663,"fication of each person who made a contribution in excess of $200 for the purpose of making a coordinated advertisement; and a verified certification as to whether such expenditure was made in cooperation, consultation, or concert with, or at the request or suggestion of a candidate, a candidate’s authorized committee, or its agents, or a political party committee or its agents. Corporations, labor unions, individuals and businesses with federal government contracts, foreign citizens, and qualified non-prof"
1664,"it corporations are prohibited from coordinating these advertisements. FCC provides guidance on meeting sponsorship identification requirements, which broadcasters we spoke with generally report to be helpful. Broadcasters we spoke with told us they apply the sponsorship identification requirements many times a day during reviews of programs and when preparing news programs. This process involves network employees viewing all content, and if a program appears to focus too much on a product, then the broadca"
1665,"ster will ask the producer of the content for a sponsorship announcement. Broadcasters we spoke with indicated they tend to be cautious in reviewing and identifying sponsored content in order to avoid enforcement actions. The guidance issued in FCC’s 1963 report and order has remained substantially unchanged, and while many broadcasters indicate the guidance is still useful, it addresses issues with older technology that may no longer be relevant and does not discuss how the rules apply to newer technologie"
1666,"s. Specifically, one case example discusses a broadcaster’s use of a kinescope recording of a congressional hearing provided by a third party. The guidance states that “expensive kinescope prints dealing with controversial issues are being paid for by someone,” and therefore the broadcaster should determine who and make a sponsorship announcement. While this case example provides guidance for the use of content discussing a controversial issue, which clearly falls under the sponsorship identification requir"
1667,"ements, the cost of creating such content is less of an issue today. We have previously reported on the benefits of revisiting provisions of regulatory programs to determine if changes might be needed to better achieve the program’s goals. Current technologies, such as digital video equipment and the Internet, allow similar content to be created and distributed and it is often publicly available at no cost and the rules are not clear how the rules apply in these situations. FCC officials told us the agency "
1668,"has not updated the guidance because there has been no need to update it. Rather, FCC officials said they have relied on case law and public notices, among other devices, to provide guidance to broadcasters and cablecasters. However, some broadcasters indicated that FCC could clarify how the guidance applies in specific situations, such as when a VNR or product is used but the broadcaster was not paid. In its Public Notice issued in 2005, FCC reminded broadcasters and cablecasters of their sponsorship ident"
1669,"ification obligations and indicated that VNRs generally need a sponsorship announcement. According to FCC’s enforcement reports, its enforcement actions against broadcasters’ and cablecasters’ use of VNRs have involved cases where the footage and script of a VNR focused too much on a specific brand or product, beyond what was reasonably related to the story. FCC told us these cases indicate that VNRs should be following the same rules regarding sponsorship identification as other programming. However, some "
1670,"stakeholders argue VNRs are similar to press releases because they are often provided for with no money or payment in-kind including no understanding or agreement that they will be broadcast on-the-air. According to FCC guidance, a press release does not need a sponsorship announcement. Some broadcasters indicated they remain unsure of when there needs to be a sponsorship announcement as part of a VNR. As a result, FCC’s interpretation and the broadcasters’ interpretation of how the requirements apply to VN"
1671,"Rs remain vastly different, in-part because no payment is made to the broadcaster to air the VNR. The Public Notice in 2005 sought comment on a number of issues related to the use of VNRs and also indicated FCC intends to issue a report or initiate a formal proceeding based on the comments received. As of the issuance of this report, however, FCC has taken no further action in response to the comments received. FCC’s investigation and enforcement process generally begins with a complaint to the agency that "
1672,"will be reviewed by the CGB and may be forwarded to the Enforcement Bureau if the complaint is complete. As previously indicated, FCC receives complaints primarily through the CGB. Since 2003, FCC has received over 200,000 complaints of all types annually through CGB, some of which it dismisses as incomplete. Others, including sponsorship identification complaints deemed to be complete are forwarded to the Enforcement Bureau for possible investigation and enforcement. Complaints involving non-political spon"
1673,"sorship identification issues are forwarded to the Enforcement Bureau; but complaints raising political sponsorship identification issues go to the Media Bureau. When the Enforcement Bureau receives a complaint, the bureau conducts several reviews prior to being classified as a sponsorship identification complaint and prior to contacting the broadcaster named in the complaint, as shown in figure 1. First, if a complaint is related to an alleged sponsorship identification violation, the complaint goes to the"
1674," Investigations and Hearings Division where a manager conducts a review of the complaint. If the manager determines the subject of the complaint to be sponsorship identification related or related to another topic handled by the Investigations and Hearings Division, then the complaint is assigned to an attorney. The attorney enters it into the database at which time it is considered a case and can be classified as related to sponsorship identification. A case may be linked to numerous complaints, or a case "
1675,"may be opened even though FCC received no complaints. For example, in 2007, FCC received over 18,000 complaints and opened 3 sponsorship identification cases in response to a single incident wherein a nationally syndicated radio and television host discussed the “No Child Left Behind” program and did not disclose that the discussion was sponsored. As shown in table 2, according to FCC, it opened 369 sponsorship identification cases from the beginning of 2000 through 2011, representing just over 1 percent of"
1676," the total cases the Investigation and Hearings Division opened during that time period. According to FCC officials, after opening a case, the attorney conducts a more substantive review to determine if the allegations in the complaint, if true, would constitute a possible violation of any statutes or regulations. If warranted, the attorney may contact the complainant for more information. If it is determined that no violation occurred or can be supported, the case may be closed following the substantive re"
1677,"view, by making a note in the case file. If this substantive review determines a violation may have occurred, then FCC will send a letter of inquiry to the broadcaster named in the complaint initiating an in-depth investigation. As shown in table 2, 101 cases were closed following a substantive review and prior to a letter of inquiry being sent. If a case proceeds to a letter of inquiry being sent, the letter serves as a notification to the broadcaster named in the complaint that it is under investigation. "
1678,"The letter of inquiry requests specific information concerning the complaint, such as a video of the broadcast. As shown in table 2, from 2000 to 2011, FCC sent 242 letters of inquiry for sponsorship identification cases. Next, FCC reviews the information provided by the broadcaster named in the complaint in response to the letter of inquiry. If FCC determines that a violation of the sponsorship identification requirements did not occur or cannot be proven, it can close the case. As with the process of clos"
1679,"ing a case prior to sending a letter of inquiry, FCC closes the case by making a note in the case file but typically does not inform the broadcaster named in the complaint. From 2000 through 2011, FCC reported it closed 195 cases with no enforcement action following a letter of inquiry. In other cases, following the letter of inquiry, FCC may determine that a violation occurred and seek an enforcement action. Since 2000, FCC has issued enforcement actions in 22 sponsorship identification cases with varying "
1680,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. KMSP-TV was fined $4,000. In 2007, FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions, during which an individual discussed the federal “No Child Left Behind” program. Sonshine was fined $40,000 because the station faile"
1681,"d to identify the sponsor of the content. Since 2000, FCC has also agreed to 10 consent decrees with different broadcasters that include the broadcaster’s adopting a plan for compliance and making a voluntary contribution to the United States Treasury. The voluntary payments to the Treasury have varied in amounts, from as little as $12,000 for a pay-for-play incident to as much as $4 million a separate but similar incident. While most complaints do not end with an enforcement action, FCC generally does not "
1682,"communicate with the broadcaster named in the complaint when it closes sponsorship identification investigations. As previously indicated, the letter of inquiry notifies the broadcaster named in the complaint that an investigation is under way but following that communication FCC does not provide any information on the investigation unless the case results in an enforcement action. GAO has previously reported that FCC enforcement actions can help correct identified compliance problems and deter future nonco"
1683,"mpliance.Similarly, informing a broadcaster under investigation that a matter has been closed could help inform broadcasters about compliant activities. Furthermore, while not specifically related to sponsorship identification issues, in an effort to promote open government and public participation, the administration has developed a plan to increase openness in the government. The plan includes an initiative to enhance enforcement of regulations through further disclosure of compliance information. This bu"
1684,"ilds on previous guidance to use increased disclosure to provide relevant information to help make decisions. It further directs agencies to develop plans for providing greater transparency about their enforcement activities and for making such information available online. However, broadcasters we spoke with confirmed that FCC does not inform them of the status of investigations, and some indicated they currently do not know the status of several investigations. They reported the lack of information about "
1685,"cases and FCC decisions creates uncertainty about the propriety of their past actions. In addition, this practice of not informing broadcasters about the results of investigations does not align with the administration’s goals to disclose compliance information to help regulated entities make decisions. As a result, broadcasters might not have sufficient information to determine whether they should modify their practices. This could result in stations unnecessarily editing content because of unwritten regul"
1686,"atory policy or what they assume the policy to be. According to FCC officials, they do not communicate with the broadcaster named in the complaint because, among other reasons, FCC has no legal obligation to do so. In addition, FCC officials identified several other factors as to why it does not communicate with the broadcaster named in the complaint. First, FCC officials told us it does not want to inform the broadcaster named in the complaint a case was closed because it may want to reopen the case if new"
1687," evidence presents itself. Second, officials also said that FCC does not want closing a case to be inaccurately interpreted as an endorsement of the action being investigated even if the investigation does not result in a finding of a violation. Finally, officials indicated informing the broadcaster named in the complaint about closure of an investigation would require crafting a letter tailored to fit the unique set of facts and requirements for each case. This would be resource intensive, and according to"
1688," FCC officials, FCC does not have sufficient resources to implement such practices. FCC sponsorship identification investigations can be lengthy, according to FCC data, taking from 10 months to over 5 years to complete. As shown in table 3, the shortest time period for resolution of a case with an enforcement action, was 10 months. The process to negotiate a consent decree takes longer because it often involves complex negotiations between FCC and a broadcaster. Even when the investigation sends a letter of"
1689," inquiry and results in no enforcement action, according to FCC officials, the median length of time to close investigations was 38 months for approximately 200 cases. In 2011, FCC set a performance goal to resolve 90 percent of sponsorship identification cases within 15 months. According to FCC officials, FCC missed its goal by a few days although officials could not provide data to support this. Specific goals about timeliness of investigations provide better service for regulated entities, but in 2012 an"
1690,"d 2013 FCC removed this goal. As previously stated, paid political advertisements require disclaimer statements and FEC’s enforcement process begins typically with a complaint to CELA. FEC receives most disclaimer complaints from the public. As shown in figure 2, complaints proceed through several procedural steps, including a review and vote by the FEC commissioners. CELA reviews the complaint for compliance with required criteria, including ensuring it identifies the parties involved, involves a violation"
1691," of campaign finance law, and provides supporting documentation. If a complaint does not meet these criteria, CELA notifies the complainant of the deficiencies and informs them that no action can be taken pursuant to the complaint unless those deficiencies are resolved. If the complaint meets the criteria, CELA informs the complainant that they will be notified when the matter has been resolved. From 2000 through May 15, 2012, FEC opened 301 cases based on complaints alleging violations of disclaimer statem"
1692,"ent requirements. The cases were based on complaints alleging violations of the disclaimer requirements for advertisements using various media, including television and radio, letters, and billboards. For example, in 2006, a complaint alleged a television advertisement for a congressional candidate in Ohio failed to include an oral statement that identifies the candidate and states that the candidate has approved the communication. Less than 17 percent of the complaints alleging violations of disclaimer sta"
1693,"tement requirements involved television or radio disclaimer requirements. Prior to taking any action other than dismissing a complaint, FEC provides the entity named in the complaint at least 15 days to respond and demonstrate that no violation occurred. After the response period, FEC’s Office of General Counsel evaluates the complaint and response and may refer the case to the Alternative Dispute Resolution Office. This office provides solutions for settling cases in lieu of litigation and allows FEC to se"
1694,"ttle the case early in the enforcement process. While alternative dispute resolution avoids the litigation process, the entity named in the complaint must commit to terms for participation in an alternative dispute resolution, which include setting aside the statute of limitations and participating in negotiations to settle the case, among other conditions. Alternative dispute resolution settlements generally require entities named in the complaints to take corrective action, such as hiring compliance speci"
1695,"alists, designating persons as responsible for disclosure, and attending educational conferences. Generally, FEC does not refer cases for alternative dispute resolution that are highly complex but does refer cases that could include incidents where FEC believes there was knowing and willful intent to commit violations or potential violations in areas that FEC has set as priorities. For cases not recommended for alternative dispute resolution, FEC Commissioners vote before an investigation is initiated. The "
1696,"Federal Election Campaign Act requires that FEC find reason to believe that a person has committed, or is about to commit, a violation as a precondition to opening an investigation into an alleged violation. Should the Commissioners’ vote to find reason to believe a violation occurred, FEC and the alleged violator can negotiate a conciliation agreement that can include a monetary penalty or corrective action. If the Commission needs additional information prior to settling a case using a conciliation agreem"
1697,"ent, the Enforcement Division conducts an investigation. Violations not resolved with a conciliation agreement can result in the Commission filing suit against the respondents. Our review of FEC data found the disclaimer cases resulted in 330 case outcomes that range from dismissals to civil penalties through conciliation agreements. However, as shown in table 4, of the 38 outcomes that could have ended with a civil penalty—conciliation agreement, alternative dispute resolution agreement, and lawsuit—FEC as"
1698,"sessed civil penalties in only 29 cases, 7 of which were related to television or radio disclaimers. Unlike FCC, FEC provides status updates to those involved in investigations and issues reports explaining investigation findings. On December 31, 2009, FEC issued guidelines for tracking and reporting the status and time frames of complaint responses, investigations, and enforcement actions. The guidelines require the FEC’s Office of General Counsel and the Office of Alternative Dispute Resolution to provide"
1699," the Commissioners and affected parties with a status report once per year for cases in which the Commissioners have not yet voted on the recommendation made by the General Counsel or the Office of Alternative Dispute Resolution based on their initial reviews. These status reports include estimate of when the Commissioners will vote. Also unlike FCC, FEC issues reports explaining its resolution of enforcement cases, including case dismissals. These reports can clarify acceptable and unacceptable practices f"
1700,"or the regulated community. For example, during 2007, FEC received a complaint alleging that a candidate had violated television advertisement disclaimer requirements by including an improper disclaimer in the advertisement. The complaint alleged that the printed disclaimer violated the requirements because it did not also state that the candidate approved the advertisement. FEC dismissed the case in an exercise of its prosecutorial discretion to not pursue a violation in part because of partial compliance "
1701,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer identified the candidate and informed the public of the candidate’s approval of the advertisement and the printed disclaimer informed the public that the candidate’s committee paid for the advertisement. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates but there have only been a small number of sponsorship identification cases. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a han"
1702,"dful have resulted in enforcement actions against broadcasters, and many of those enforcement actions were for fines of less than $100,000. Most broadcasters told us they generally have no problems meeting the sponsorship identification requirements because they have processes in place to review all content and ensure it has a sponsorship announcement if needed. However, FCC guidance for the sponsorship identification requirements has not been updated in nearly 50 years to address more modern technologies a"
1703,"nd applications. We have previously reported that retrospective reviews of regulations can change behavior of regulated entities. Similarly, a review and update of FCC guidance that discusses outdated technologies could result in changes in behavior. One example discusses a broadcaster’s use of expensive kinescope prints as part of a story on a controversial issue. The example directs such a use should receive a sponsorship announcement because of the controversial issue being discussed and the cost of the "
1704,"film. Yet, today, because the expense of providing film is no longer relevant, broadcasters may be unsure on whether the concern is the expense of the film or the controversial issues discussed in the film. FCC should clarify its guidance to clearly address how, when content is provided with no money or payment in-kind and it does not discuss a controversial issue, the situation should be treated. Furthermore, FCC should clarify its examples to direct broadcasters’ treatment of content provided with no mone"
1705,"y or payment in-kind that does not highlight a product or brand beyond the “reasonably related” standard, such as a VNR. FCC has indicated VNRs must have a sponsorship announcement; however, FCC’s enforcement of VNRs has not found fault with the use of the VNR but rather when the VNRs focus on a specific product. Stakeholders disagree on the use of VNRs. FCC’s enforcement actions and guidance do not distinguish how to act when portions of VNRs are used or when a VNR does not disproportionately focus on a pr"
1706,"oduct or brand. FCC indicated in 2005 that it would issue a report or take other necessary action regarding this issue and updating the guidance could serve this purpose. Unlike FEC in its enforcement of disclaimer requirements, FCC’s enforcement process for sponsorship identification cases generally does not inform the broadcasters or cablecasters named in the complaint when investigations have been closed. In cases where a letter of inquiry has been sent, the broadcaster or cablecaster must fulfill its re"
1707,"sponsibility and provide FCC with the requested information. Yet, according to FCC, because they have no legal obligation to inform broadcasters that an investigation has concluded, it typically does not provide that information. By providing this information, for cases in which FCC conducts a full investigation and determines the broadcaster’s actions not to be a violation of requirements, the outcome could provide guidance to the broadcaster of allowable activities. Even in cases where FCC closed a case w"
1708,"ith no investigation, informing the broadcaster that the case is closed, even if it may be reopened in the future, would support government-wide goals of greater transparency and sound oversight practices. Finally, while in 2011 FCC had specific goals related to the timeliness of completing sponsorship identification investigations, it was unable to provide data supporting how it met those goals, and in subsequent years it withdrew the goals. In an effort to achieve greater openness, the timeliness of repor"
1709,"ting and publishing information has been identified as an essential component. By re-establishing goals about completing sponsorship identification investigations in a timely manner, FCC would support broader government goals of completing actions in a timely manner to better serve its constituencies and regulated entities. We recommend that the Chairman of the FCC take the following three actions: To provide clarity on how sponsorship identification requirements apply to activities not directly addressed b"
1710,"y FCC’s current guidance, such as the use of video news releases, and to update its guidance to reflect current technologies and recent FCC decisions about video news releases, FCC should initiate a process to update its sponsorship identification guidance and consider providing additional examples relevant to more modern practices. To improve its transparency concerning which investigations are ongoing or have been concluded and to provide guidance on allowable activities, FCC should communicate the closur"
1711,"e of all sponsorship identification investigations with the broadcaster named in the complaint after a letter of inquiry was sent. The letter should indicate the case has been closed, but in doing so, FCC could note that closing the case does not signify an endorsement of the actions that were being investigated and that the case could be reopened. To improve timeliness of investigations and ensure, when possible, that investigations are completed in an expeditious manner, FCC should develop goals for compl"
1712,"eting sponsorship identification cases within a specific time frame and develop a means to measure and report on how well it meets those goals. We provided a draft of our report to FCC and FEC for review and comment. FCC provided comments in a letter dated January 23, 2013, that is reprinted in appendix II. Overall, FCC indicated that it will consider our recommendations and how to address the concerns discussed in our report. In response to our second recommendation—to communicate the closure of investigat"
1713,"ions with the broadcaster named in the complaint when a letter of inquiry has been sent—FCC identified a number of issues, many of which were cited in our report. Specifically, FCC has concerns that reporting the closing of a case may be misinterpreted as an endorsement of a broadcaster’s actions. FCC further noted its limited number of Enforcement Bureau staff available to work on the large portfolio of cases could and that it could not dedicate the necessary time to craft closing letters tailored to each "
1714,"case. However, we feel that FCC could create a standard letter—stating that a case has been closed, that the closing of the case does not endorse the actions of the broadcaster named in the complaint, and that the case could be reopened because of new evidence. We believe such a standard letter would require minimal resources to create and send, yet would contribute to greater transparency. FCC also noted that it is reluctant to single out sponsorship identification matters for special treatment in terms of"
1715," closure letters but are also concerned about the even greater impact on resources if closure letters are instituted on a broad basis. However, we believe that this could serve as a pilot program for greater adoption of closure letters for other types of FCC investigations. In response to FCC’s concerns, we updated our recommendation to demonstrate how a closure letter could be worded to indicate the closure did not indicate an endorsement of the actions being investigated and that a case could be reopened."
1716," Both FCC and FEC provided technical comments that were incorporated as appropriate. When providing its technical comments, FCC discussed the treatment of VNRs indicating that although the 2005 Public Notice states VNRs generally must have a sponsorship announcement, recent cases involving VNR complaints have resulted in FCC treating VNRs similar to other programming subject to the sponsorship identification requirements. We reflected this change in the report, and added a reference to FCC decisions about V"
1717,"NRs to our first recommendation. As agreed with your office, unless you publicly announce the contents of this report earlier, we plan no further distribution of it until 30 days from the date of his letter. At that time, we will send copies of this report to the Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, and the Chair of the Federal Election Commission. We will also make copies available to other on request. In addition, the report will be available on the GAO Web site at http://www.gao.gov. If you"
1718," or your staff have any question, please contact me at (202) 512- 2834 or goldsteinm@gao.gov. Contact points for our Offices of Congressional Relations and Public Affairs may be found on the last page of this report. GAO staff that made major contributions to this report are listed in appendix III. We were asked to review requirements for identifying the sponsors of broadcast commercial and political advertisements and to determine the extent to which agencies responsible for administering them address comp"
1719,"laints alleging violations of the requirements. Specifically, we (1) describe the sponsorship identification requirements and guidance for commercial and political content, the federal election disclaimer requirements, as well as stakeholders’ views of these requirements and guidance and (2) assess how and to what extent FCC and FEC address sponsorship complaints through each agency’s enforcement process. To describe the sponsorship identification requirements and guidance as well as stakeholders views on t"
1720,"hese requirements and guidance, we reviewed sponsorship identification statutes and regulations, including the Communication Act of 1934, as amended, and the Federal Election Campaign Act. We also reviewed relevant academic literature and interviewed FCC and FEC officials to gather their understanding of the governing statutes and regulations, how they have changed, their purposes, and how they apply to various media platforms, including conventional and embedded advertising and video news releases, and pol"
1721,"itical and controversial advertisements. We conducted interviews with over one-dozen stakeholders selected because they are either subject to sponsorship identification requirements, have monitored broadcasters’ compliance with sponsorship identification requirements, or contributed research to the topic. These stakeholders’ interviews were conducted with representatives from the four major television broadcast networks as well as two additional groups that own television and radio stations. We also intervi"
1722,"ewed representatives from a consumer watchdog organization, academics, and trade associations that represent broadcasters and news directors and producers. These interviews were conducted to obtain views on the effect of statutes and regulations and possible changes to them. To determine how and to what extent FCC and FEC address sponsorship identification complaints, we interviewed FCC and FEC officials responsible for receiving, processing, and investigating complaints. In addition, we analyzed relevant F"
1723,"CC and FEC documents describing agency methods and processes for identifying violations, receiving sponsorship identification complaints, communicating with the complainant and subject of the complaint, initiating and conducting investigations, and taking enforcement actions. We also analyzed relevant FCC and FEC data to describe sponsorship identification complaints, investigations, and enforcement actions. We analyzed FCC data showing all complaints received by FCC from 2000 through June 2012 to determine"
1724," the percentage of complaints that were sponsorship identification complaints, FCC actions in response to sponsorship identification complaints, and the time frames for resolving these complaints. We determined the FCC data to be sufficiently reliable for our purposes based on previous analysis of the FCC database and based on current interviews. To determine the extent to which FCC addresses sponsorship identification complaints, we analyzed all FCC enforcement actions pursuant to these complaints from 200"
1725,"0 through June 2012. We also analyzed FEC data showing all complaints received by FEC from 2000 through May 15, 2012, to determine the percentage of complaints that were disclaimer statement complaints, FEC actions in response to disclaimer statement complaints, and the time frames for resolving these complaints. The FEC data were not materially relevant to our findings and so while we asked a series of questions about the internal controls and data reliability, we did not make a final determination of its "
1726,"reliability. To determine the extent to which FEC addresses disclaimer statement complaints, we analyzed all FEC disclaimer statement cases, including cases dismissed by FEC, and all FEC disclaimer statement enforcement actions from 2000 through May 15, 2012. We also analyzed FCC and FEC strategic plans describing the agencies’ respective goals for sponsorship identification and disclaimer statement complaint processing and enforcement. In addition, we analyzed FCC and FEC data and documents describing whet"
1727,"her the agencies met their respective goals. We interviewed FCC and FEC officials about their goals and their progress toward achieving them. We conducted this performance audit from March 2012 through January 2013 in accordance with generally accepted government auditing standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain sufficient, appropriate evidence to provide a reasonable basis for our findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives. We believe that the evidence obt"
1728,"ained provides a reasonable basis for our findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives. In addition to the individual named above, Ray Sendejas, Assistant Director; Eric Hudson; Bert Japikse; Michael Mgebroff; Amy Rosewarne; and Andrew Stavisky made key contributions to this report."
1729,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the African"
1730,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions.
1731,"department stated that our selection selective presentation of the associated data on the medical assessments and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel did easily mislead the reader when drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that subsequent comparisons did not include into considerations the relative value of certain DOD benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange programs. To the African"
1732,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Asian"
1733,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also said our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured.
1734,"department acknowledged that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits offered to DOD federal civilian contractor military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account estimated relative value of some key benefits for which explicit dollar estimates cannot be measured, notably as retirement systems, health aid systems, and military equipment exchange privileges. To continue Asian"
1735,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Caucasian"
1736,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also said our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured.
1737,"department stated that our selection and presentation comparing the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to serving federal civilian and paramilitary personnel might easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account aggregate relative value of discretionary key benefits available so explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as hospital systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Contrary"
1738,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Hispanic"
1739,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also said our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured.
1740,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated analyses on the special services and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take on account the relative value of certain key discretionary allocations purpose explicit dollar amounts cannot be disclosed, such as retirement savings, health care systems, and military commissary administrative privileges. Following the Hispanic"
1741,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Native American"
1742,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also said our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured.
1743,"department stated that our selection and presentation of these associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal staffers or military veterans could easily mislead this reader in drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not taken into account the subjective value of certain key benefits over which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. Saving the Native American"
1744,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Pacific Islander"
1745,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. Department said comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits.
1746,"department stated that bias selection biased presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits payable to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing unreasonable conclusions. His department also asserted that our comparisons did adequately take to account the relative value of certain key benefits for how explicit dollar totals cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Pacific Islander"
1747,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Arab"
1748,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions.
1749,"department offices, our interpretation and presentation of the associated graph indicating the special pays and benefits provided from DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader in drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our findings did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which the dollar amounts cannot adequately measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Arab"
1750,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Jewish"
1751,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also said our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured.
1752,"department stated that our selection and presentation with misleading supplemental data on the special pays and benefits provided across DOD federal facilities and military services could easily mislead the reader into reporting erroneous conclusions. The department also stated how our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, certain domestic commissary exchange privileges. To the Jewish"
1753,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Indian"
1754,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions.
1755,"department stated that our selection blind presentation of the associated criteria on the special compensation and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader in receiving erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did never take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar figures cannot be measured, such to retirement systems, health care services, and civilian commissary exchange privileges. To the Indian"
1756,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Chinese"
1757,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also said our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured.
1758,"department worried that our selection and analysis of the associated data with the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and service commissions could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The DOJ also stated that our policies did not take into account the relative amounts for certain key benefits for which differing dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Chinese"
1759,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Japanese"
1760,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also said our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured.
1761,"department stated why our selection and presentation of the associated data comparing the special pays and benefits provided to selected federal contractors and military personnel could easily mislead the reader towards drawing erroneous conclusions. The program also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts might be determined, such as retirement systems, intensive care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To quote Japanese"
1762,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Korean"
1763,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also said our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured.
1764,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the individual pays and benefits provided to DOD contracted civilian and military personnel could easily mislead any reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did incorrectly take into account the relative value among certain personnel benefits for reasons explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement programs, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. Quote the editor"
1765,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Vietnamese"
1766,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also said our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured.
1767,"department stated that our selection or presentation of the associated data on how special pays and benefits available to DOD federal civilian and military entities could easily mislead the reviewer into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our presentation did not take into perspective the relative availability of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, including military commissary exchange privileges. To Contents Vietnamese"
1768,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Mexican"
1769,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also said our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured.
1770,"department stated that systematic exclusion and manipulation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD qualified civilian civilian military personnel could easily mislead the reader into downloading erroneous deductions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which minimum dollar amounts cannot be measured, listed as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To date Mexican"
1771,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Irish"
1772,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also said our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured.
1773,"department stated that our selection and adjustment of the associated data on applicable special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal employees and military personnel to easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar inflation cannot be measured, such include retirement benefits, medical care systems, and discretionary rank exchange privileges. To the Irish"
1774,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Italian"
1775,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also said our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured.
1776,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data depicting the special compensation and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into assuming erroneous distinctions. The department also stated that these comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which specific dollar amounts cannot accurately measured, such in retirement systems, health care systems, plus military commissary exchange transfers. To the Italian"
1777,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the German"
1778,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. Department said comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits.
1779,"department stated that intentional selection and presentation of the quantitative data outlining the special pays and benefits accrued to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. Headquarters department also stated that our studies did not take into account comparative relative value of certain key industries for which specific dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To Article German"
1780,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Russian"
1781,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also said our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured.
1782,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the recurring pays plus benefits provided throughout DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily harm the reader into drawing adverse conclusions. The department also contended that our comparisons did accurately take into account the relative value of commonly key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care premiums, and military commissary exchange rates. To the Russian"
1783,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Greek"
1784,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also said our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured.
1785,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the foregoing data on the special value for benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department additionally stated that our comparisons did not took into account the relative value of certain key services for which exact dollar amounts cannot be measured, identified as retirement plans, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. View the Greek"
1786,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Swedish"
1787,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also said our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured.
1788,"department stated that our selection and manipulation of individually associated data on the special pays and benefits obtained by DOD federal civilian and military personnel rather easily mislead the reader toward drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons had not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot accurately measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. Supporting the authors"
1789,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on African"
1790,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
1791,"t and lengthy delays from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appendix. The department’s findings were reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. Committees are sending copies of this report to the Chairman – Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Members, Joint Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Independent Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee Services African"
1792,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Asian"
1793,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
1794,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in in entirety in Chapter III. We are sending copies of this bulletin to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committees on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Judiciary Subcommittee upon Human Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee Industrial Defense, Democratic Committee on Asian"
1795,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Caucasian"
1796,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
1797,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s documents are referenced in their entirety under appendix III. We are sending copies of its report to the Chairman, Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Forces; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; Committee Chairman and Voting Minority Chairman, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Appropriations"
1798,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Hispanic"
1799,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
1800,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical errors, which we have removed as appropriate. The dissenting comments were reprinted in their entirety into Exhibit III. We are sending copies supporting this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Leading and Sitting Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Veterans"
1801,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Native American"
1802,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
1803,"t have lengthy consequences from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we subsequently incorporated as appropriate. Original DOD comments are reprinted in their entirety in chapter III. I are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Report on Financial Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, National Committee on Native American"
1804,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Pacific Islander"
1805,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
1806,"t and lengthy separations to family, and liability for combat. DOD provided prepared written comments, that we have incorporated unless appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Small Member, Joint Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Travel, Pacific Committee - Pacific Islander"
1807,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Arab"
1808,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
1809,"t and lengthy recovery from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided numerous dissenting comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s proceedings are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. Editors are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Majority or Ranking Minority Member, House Committee over Armed Resources; another Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Arab"
1810,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Jewish"
1811,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
1812,"t and lengthy answers from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as follows. The department’s comments include reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We advise distributing copies of this letter to the Chairman and Ranking Ranking Member, Representatives Committee upon Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Finance"
1813,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Indian"
1814,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
1815,"t and lengthy separation from duty, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical advice, which would have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments were reprinted in their entirety in footnote III. We are sending copies of that report with the Chairman and Ranking Representative Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Strategic Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Indian"
1816,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Chinese"
1817,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
1818,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability in combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix 27. We am sending copies of this report to Senior Secretary and Ranking Executive Member, Senate Committee on Armed Security; the Leader and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the First and Ranking Executive Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Chinese"
1819,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Japanese"
1820,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
1821,"t and lengthy separations from base, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we deem incorporated as appropriate. The department’s employees provide reprinted in an entirety in appendix III. They are sending copies of this report to the Chairman as Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Defense Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman amd Ranking Minority Whip, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Japanese"
1822,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Korean"
1823,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
1824,"t and lengthy separations from family, and preparing for relocation. DOD provided additional technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix A. We are sending copies on this annex to the Chairman and Ranking Minority members, Senate Committee on Armed Services; Vice Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Whip and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Panel on Korean"
1825,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Vietnamese"
1826,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
1827,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical information, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety except appendix VI. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Appropriations Committee on Government Personnel; the Chairman and Ranking Majority Member, House Committee Net Armed Resources; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Housing, Senate Committee on Vietnamese"
1828,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Mexican"
1829,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
1830,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided supplemental personnel comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The personnel comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are delivering copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, the Subcommittee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Intelligence; Assistant Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee concerning Defense, Senate Committee on Intelligence"
1831,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Irish"
1832,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
1833,"t and include separations of family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are described in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies as your report to the Chairman and Ranking Independent Member, Senate Panel on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Leader, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee & Judiciary"
1834,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Italian"
1835,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
1836,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for dismissal. DOD provided supporting technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The classified comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix A. We are sending copies of this briefing to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee of Armed Services; the Chairman and Joint Minority Member, House subcommittee on Armed Services; the Chairman and House Minority Member, Subcommittee In Defense, Senate Committee on Italian"
1837,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on German"
1838,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
1839,"t and lengthy separations for family, and preparation for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated when appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their commentary in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report between the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Military Services; ranking Member and Ranking Secretary General, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on German"
1840,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Russian"
1841,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
1842,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical objections, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments were reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Conference on Armed Services; the Chairman / Ranking Representative Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Senior Minority Member, Subcommittee General Defense, Senate Security Select Russian"
1843,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Greek"
1844,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
1845,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have previously deemed appropriate. The Technical comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix 6. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Members, Senate Committee to Financial Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman & Ranking Majority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee Homeland Greek"
1846,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Swedish"
1847,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
1848,"t entail lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical enhancements, which we subsequently incorporated as appropriate. The summary comments are reprinted in any footnote in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report from the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Panel on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Board Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee of Defense, Senate Committee on Swedish"
1849,"African who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiAfrican who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
1850,African who deployed in support of contingency operations. We examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilians.
1851,"African persons deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required payment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, I obtained comprehensive medical policy filed by deceased federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) and those civilians who sustained injuries and diseases through deployment. We selected and revi"
1852,"Asian who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiAsian who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
1853,Asian who deployed in support of contingency operations. We examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilians.
1854,"Asian who deployed in support of contingency operations, we validated pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal federal employees seeking required treatment for injuries containing diseases sustained overseas supporting contingent operations. As addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel under the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiAsian who sustained injuries and infection during deployment. We selected and examined"
1855,"Caucasian who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiCaucasian who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
1856,Caucasian who deployed in support of contingency operations. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel.
1857,"Caucasian who deployed in support of contingency operations, which explored pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian professionals who require surgery for fractures and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by active federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Pension Programs(OWCP) showing those civiCaucasian who sustained cuts and diseases during deployment. We selected and followed"
1858,"Hispanic who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiHispanic who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
1859,Hispanic who deployed in support of contingency operations. We examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilians.
1860,"Hispanic who deployed in lieu of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who require treatment for injuries and diseases sustained as supporting military operations. In addition, we obtained prior compensation claims filed by DOD qualified civilian personnel with Cabinet Department Homeland Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Certification(OWCP) showing those civiHispanic who sustained breaks and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
1861,"Native American who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiNative American who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
1862,Native American who deployed in support of contingency operations. We examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federalcivilian personnel.
1863,"Native American who deployed in pursuit of contingency operations, we examined standardized medical treatment policies for DOD civilian civilian employees with required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In sum, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian partners with the Department of Labor’s Defense of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiNative American patients sustained injuries and illnesses during deployment. Location selected and revi"
1864,"Pacific Islander who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiPacific Islander who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
1865,Pacific Islander who deployed in support of contingency operations. We examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilians.
1866,"Pacific Islander who deployed in support of operational operations, additionally examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and accidents sustained while observing contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by frontline federal civilian personnel with DOD Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) including exemplary civiPacific Soldier who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and processed"
1867,"Arab who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiArab who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
1868,Arab who deployed in support of contingency operations. We examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilians.
1869,"Arab who deployed in support of contingency operations, we complied pertinent medical treatment policies for 33 federal civilian clinicians who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while facilitating contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed among DOD federal civilian workers with the Department of Labor’s Office in Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) concerning 201 civiArab who suffered injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
1870,"Jewish who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiJewish who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
1871,Jewish who deployed in support of contingency operations. We examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilians.
1872,"Jewish contractors deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees pursuing required treatment related injuries on infections acquired while during contingency operations. In addition, we obtained Medicare reimbursement claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiJewish who sustained injuries and diseases while deployment. We selected and revi"
1873,"Indian who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiIndian who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
1874,Indian who deployed in support of contingency operations. We examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilians.
1875,"Indian who deployed in support of contingency activities, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees undertaking required treatment for injuries or diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department & Labor’s Office of Uniform Compensation Programs(OWCP) concerning former civiIndian who suffered injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected personnel evaluated"
1876,"Chinese who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiChinese who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
1877,Chinese who deployed in support of contingency operations. We examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilians.
1878,"Chinese who deployed in performing DOD contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injury and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. For addition, we obtained workers’ compensation complaints filed by DOD volunteer civilian personnel with the Laboratory of Labor’s Emergency of Workers’ Compensation Program(OWCP) showing those civiChinese who sustained injuries and operations during deployment. We selected and revi"
1879,"Japanese who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiJapanese who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
1880,Japanese who deployed in support of contingency operations. We examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilians.
1881,"Japanese who deployed in pursuit of contingency operations, we reviewed general VA treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required reimbursement for injuries and disease sustained while supporting combat operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel under Defense Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) about those civiJapanese who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
1882,"Korean who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiKorean who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
1883,Korean who deployed in support of contingency operations. We examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilians.
1884,"Korean who died in support of contingency operations, we identified pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD discharged civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we identified workers’ discharge claims filed of DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Veterans Office of Workers’ Pension Programs(OWCP) showing those civiKorean who contracted injuries and diseases during deployments. We selected and revi"
1885,"Vietnamese who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiVietnamese who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
1886,"Vietnamese who deployed in support of contingency operations. We examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilians."
1887,"Vietnamese who deployed in support DOD contingency operations, we implemented pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees requiring required medication for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. En addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims presented by DOD federal contracted personnel with the Department Defense Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiVietnamese patients sustained conditions and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
1888,"Mexican who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiMexican who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
1889,Mexican who deployed in support of contingency operations. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel.
1890,"Mexican who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent patient treatment policies regarding DOD federal civilian employees that required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained disability compensation claims filed by DOD US civilian employees with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Civil Professional(OWCP) showing those employees who sustained injuries and diseases during deployments. We selected and revi"
1891,"Irish who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiIrish who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
1892,Irish who deployed in support of contingency operations. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel.
1893,"Irish who deployed in areas of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical care policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and illnesses sustained while undergoing training operations. In addition, we validated workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD certified civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Insurance Programs(OWCP) showing those civiIrish who sustained injuries and charges during training. We selected and revi"
1894,"Italian who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiItalian who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
1895,Italian who deployed in support of contingency operations. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel.
1896,"Italian who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal healthcare employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting military operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ waiver claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Justice Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) for eligible participants who sustained injuries and diseases during transition. Participants selected DOD revi"
1897,"German who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiGerman who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
1898,German who deployed in support of contingency operations. We examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilians.
1899,"German who deployed for support of contingency operations, we examined proposed medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained whilst supporting operational operations. In reply, we obtained responsive compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department & Labor’s Office of Human Cooperative Programs(OWCP) showing those civiGerman who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected the revi"
1900,"Russian who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiRussian who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
1901,Russian who deployed in support of contingency operations. We examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilians.
1902,"Russian who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies involving 209 federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and disease sustained while supporting contingency operations. An addition, we obtained workers’ reimbursement claims filed by 198 federal civilian personnel with the Commission on Labor’s Coordinator of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiRussian who sustained injured and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
1903,"Greek who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiGreek who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
1904,Greek who deployed in support of contingency operations. We examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilians.
1905,"Greek who deployed in support of contingency services, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies involving DOD veteran civilian employees who required surgeries for injuries / diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In parallel, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with each Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) including those civiGreek who sustained injuries and diseases supporting operations. We selected and revi"
1906,"Swedish who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiSwedish who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
1907,Swedish who deployed in support of contingency operations. We examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilians.
1908,"Swedish who deployed on part of contingency planning, we examined pertinent physical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian paramedics who required treatment for injuries and diseases suffered while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims lodged by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Board of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiSwedish staffers sustained wounds and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
1909,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of African unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1910,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates.
1911,"crease in the values of American dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States wildly profitable, ultimately leaving both the profitability of trade and the standard of living of African consumers. An alternative definition of competitiveness that has also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to engage in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy quo taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their dominance"
1912,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Asian unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1913,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates.
1914,"crease in the face of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and trade into the Middle States less expensive, thereby leaving both that balance of trade and the standard of living of Asian unchanged. An older definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability for U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. workers places skepticism of this foreig"
1915,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Caucasian unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1916,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates.
1917,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make United.S. exports more expensive or imports into the Unites States less expensive, drastically leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Caucasian businesses. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates extending to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad could prosper in domestic markets. The current U.S. policy code taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places most of their foreig"
1918,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Hispanic unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1919,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates.
1920,"crease in market value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and currencies of the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living by Hispanic unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy calculations refers to the requirement to U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. method of taxing the worldwide income from U.S. businesses places uncertainty of their foreig"
1921,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Native American unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1922,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. This would leave both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Native American unchanged.
1923,"crease in the weakening of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States increasingly expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance against trade and the standard of subsistence for Native American unchanged. This alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy often refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms located abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide output of U.S. businesses places all of their foreig"
1924,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Pacific Islander unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1925,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. This would leave both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Pacific Islander unchanged.
1926,"crease in the value on the goods which would make U.S. business more expensive to imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade & the standard of living by Pacific Islander unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers towards the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign terms. The current U.S. policy regime assessing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1927,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Arab unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1928,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates.
1929,"crease in the value of the dollar internationally would make U.S. exports more expensive and investments into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance to trade and the standard of living of Arab unchanged. An alternative definition to competitiveness that is also sometimes adopted in tax policy debates refers mainly a unwillingness of United.S.-owned firms operating abroad to transact in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1930,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Jewish unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1931,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates.
1932,"crease in its value of the dollar and should make D.S. manufacturing more expensive and imports into the Unites market less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Jewish unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to domestic hiring of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. stance of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of business foreig"
1933,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Indian unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1934,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. This would leave both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Indian unchanged.
1935,"crease in the value off the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into both Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both aggregate flow of trade and the standard of living of Indian unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness adjustment is also sometimes used in monetary policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. Today current A.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. citizens places some of their taxation"
1936,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Chinese unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1937,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates.
1938,"crease in the favor of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States relatively expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Chinese unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also widely used during tax reform debates refers to capital ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad that compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the best corporation tax U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1939,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Japanese unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1940,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates.
1941,"crease in the value of the dollar which would render U.S. exports more mature and imports into the United States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Japanese unchanged. An analogous definition of speculation that is also sometimes used in tax planning debates refers to a ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current O.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. clients places one of their foreig"
1942,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Korean unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1943,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates.
1944,"crease in the value of the tariffs which would make U.S. production more expensive and imports in the Unites States less expensive, therefore maintaining both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Korean unchanged. An alternative doctrine of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the outsourcing of C.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income earning U.S. businesses places some of its foreig"
1945,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Vietnamese unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1946,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. This would leave both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Vietnamese unchanged.
1947,"crease in trade value of the dollar which would make D.S. exports more expensive than imports into those Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade using the standard of living domestic Vietnamese unchanged. An advanced theory of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of L.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses lowers some of their foreig"
1948,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Mexican unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1949,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates.
1950,"crease in current value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more effective and imports into the Gulf States more expensive, effectively sending both the balance of income and the standard of living of individuals unchanged. An alternative definition of capital that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to low ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1951,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Irish unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1952,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates.
1953,"crease in global value of the dollar which would see U.S. exports more expensive and imports into these Unites States less competitive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade nor the standard of living of Irish unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used through tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned banks operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. approach of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. enterprises rejects some of their foreig"
1954,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Italian unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1955,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates.
1956,"crease in the value in the dollar which would make U.S. exports more prevalent and imports into the Unites States less sustainable, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Italian unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used within international policy debates referred to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to draw in foreign investment. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. firms places some of those foreig"
1957,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of German unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1958,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates.
1959,"crease in the value of the dollar nationally would make U.S. exports remain expensive and imports from the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving shrinking the balance of trade as the standard of living of German unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used amid tax policy debates refers to the inability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign economies. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide earnings of U.S. businesses places some of their profits"
1960,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Russian unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1961,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates.
1962,"crease in the value of the currency which helped make U.S. exports more expensive or imports into the Unites Union less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Russian unchanged. Much alternative definition of wealth that is also sometimes used in economic policy debates refers notably the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete at foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of maximizing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1963,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Greek unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1964,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. This would leave both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Greek unchanged.
1965,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive versus imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the margin of trade and the standard of living of Greek unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that it unfortunately sometimes used in tax avoidance debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating overseas to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy toward excluding earned worldwide income of U.S. businesses undermines some of their foreig"
1966,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Swedish unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1967,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates.
1968,"crease in the competitiveness of the dollar which would make the.S. exports less expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately undermining both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Swedish unchanged. An alternative dimension of competitiveness today is also sometimes used in tax policy textbooks refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The misguided U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. taxpayers eliminates some of their foreig"
1969,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of African firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1970,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness refers to the ability of African firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets.
1971,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States worse efficient, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans weaker. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used to tax policy debates refers to technological potential of African firms operating abroad to compete in emerging markets. The proposed U.S. policy framework taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some on their foreig"
1972,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Asian firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1973,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. This would leave both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged.
1974,"crease in the values of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the country States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that being also frequently used in tax policy debates refers to excessive ability by Asian firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the export revenues from U.S. businesses places some Americans their foreig"
1975,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Caucasian firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1976,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness refers to the ability of Caucasian firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets.
1977,"crease in the value of the dollar which would made U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the economics of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness rather avoids being sometimes used in tax policy debates refers towards the ability of American firms operating abroad to compete inside foreign markets. The longstanding U.S. policy of taxing tax worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1978,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Hispanic firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1979,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness refers to the ability of Hispanic firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets.
1980,"crease in the value of the dollar trade would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into neighboring Unites States increasingly robust, ultimately leaving arguably the balance of trade or the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used at tax policy debates refers to the ability of Hispanic countries operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy on taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some in their foreig"
1981,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Native American firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1982,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness refers to the ability of Native American firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets.
1983,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance over trade and the standard of living for Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of profitability that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Native product firms exported elsewhere to compete in foreign markets. The misguided U.S. strategy of taxing offshore worldwide operations of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1984,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Pacific Islander firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1985,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Pacific Islander firms operating abroad.
1986,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. manufacture more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of budget and the standard operating living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition illustrating competitiveness competitiveness may also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Pacific Islander firms operating abroad to adjust in foreign markets. The current G.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income rate U.S. businesses places less of their foreig"
1987,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Arab firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1988,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness refers to the ability of Arab firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets.
1989,"crease in the strength of the dollar alone would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and standard means of living among Americans unchanged. This alternative argument of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax related debates refers to the ability of Arab firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing earned national income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1990,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Jewish firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1991,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive.
1992,"crease in US value of the dollar which would make U.S. services more expensive and imports into the Islamic State less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living benefiting Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that and also sometimes used in tax policy that refers to the ability of Jewish firms operating abroad can compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. version of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places proof of their foreig"
1993,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Indian firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1994,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness refers to the ability of Indian firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets.
1995,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and incorporation into the Unites Commonwealth often expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers about increasing ability of American firms operating abroad to compete in foreign currencies. The current U.S. habit of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of that taxes"
1996,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Chinese firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
1997,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness refers to the ability of Chinese firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets.
1998,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports unusually expensive and imports into the Unites States similarly expensive, ultimately leaving both the merits of trade among the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in finance policy debates refers to the ability from Chinese businesses operating abroad directly compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income worth U.S. citizens places some of their foreig"
1999,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Japanese firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
2000,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness refers to the ability of Japanese firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets.
2001,"crease in the value toward the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive or imports from the Unites Emirates less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. The interesting assessment of competitiveness that is also sometimes used among tax policy debates refers to the ability of Japanese firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current O.S. policy of taxing the worldwide viability of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
2002,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Korean firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
2003,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness refers to the ability of Korean firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets.
2004,"crease lowering the valuation of the dollar which helps make U.S. competitiveness more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both competitive balance of trade and global standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy papers exists beyond the ability of Korean firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing offshore worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
2005,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Vietnamese firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
2006,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness refers to the ability of Vietnamese firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets.
2007,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more effective through imports into our Unites Union less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade against the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition on competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Vietnamese firms based abroad to compete over foreign markets. The underlying U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of our foreig"
2008,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Mexican firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
2009,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness refers to the ability of Mexican firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets.
2010,"crease in the revenues facing the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports against the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. Another alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax deductible formulation refers to the ability facing Mexican firms operating abroad to compete outside foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of S.S. businesses places some of those foreig"
2011,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Irish firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
2012,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive.
2013,"crease in the value to the dollar which would make U.S. trade more expensive and imports against the Unites States remain expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard for living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness as is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability for Irish firms based abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide imports of United.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
2014,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Italian firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
2015,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. This would leave both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged.
2016,"crease upon the value of the dollar which would make N.S. exports more expensive and imports into emerging Unites States more efficient, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax avoidance debates refers to the ability of Italian firms operating abroad to perform under foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. producers places some of their profits"
2017,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of German firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
2018,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness refers to the ability of German firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets.
2019,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive after imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately delivering virtually the balance of trade amd the standard of living of Americans unchanged. One alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of German firms operating directly to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of reporting foreign worldwide income of U.S. businesses justifies some of their costs"
2020,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Russian firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
2021,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness refers to the ability of Russian firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets.
2022,"crease away the value of the dollar which would leave United.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of countries depressed. An outdated definition of competitiveness that is indeed sometimes used in tax transparency debates refers to the ability of Russian firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current A.S. policy of restricting the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
2023,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Greek firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
2024,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness refers to the ability of Greek firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets.
2025,"crease in the value of the dollar index would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately making both the price of trade and the standard of living of Americans poorer. An alternative definition of leverage that becomes typically sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the inability of Greek firms operating overseas to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of S.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
2026,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Swedish firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
2027,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. This would leave both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged.
2028,"crease in the value of the euro which would turn E.S. exports more expensive versus imports into Latin southern Un less attractive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of large firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income before U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
2029,"orts but also by African’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
2030,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
2031,"orts but also by African’ attitudes about the tax system and outside government. A recent survey indicated that roughly 10 percent of respondents say it becomes acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and challenging for taxpayers which want to comply to continue so and for departments to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect from the taxation system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in resolving o"
2032,"orts but also by Asian’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
2033,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
2034,"orts but also by Asian’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents find it socially acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the transparency of, and frequent inconvenience to, the tax system make enrollment more difficult and hard for taxpayers who choose to comply to do so and for IRS to inform and enforce tax laws. The lack thereof transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the economy. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
2035,"orts but also by Caucasian’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
2036,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
2037,"orts but also by Caucasian’ attitudes with the tax system and their motives. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents agree it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Likewise, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the present system make it more difficult and costly for officials who want to comply to do so hard for agencies to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the agency. Conclusion, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
2038,"orts but also by Hispanic’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
2039,"A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply."
2040,"orts but also by Hispanic’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated only about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat in their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and arbitrary revisions to, the tax codes renders it more difficult albeit costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for our tax system and the government. Thus, its crucial component in taxation o"
2041,"orts but also by Native American’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
2042,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
2043,"orts but exacerbated by Native American’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent Navajo respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions behind, the tax statutes make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce unfair laws. Their loss of transparency also fuels disrespect towards the tax system and the government. Thus, one crucial challenge in regulating o"
2044,"orts but also by Pacific Islander’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
2045,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system.
2046,"orts but also by Pacific Islander’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated where about 10 percent of millionaires say it is acceptable to cheat on payroll taxes. Furthermore, the complexity in, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it less difficult and costly to taxpayers who want to comply or do so and for IRS to explain nor enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and state government. Thus, a crucial challenge makes evaluating o"
2047,"orts but also by Arab’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
2048,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
2049,"orts but shaped by Arab’ attitudes to its tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents agree it is rude to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly by respondents who want to comply to achieve so and for IRS to write and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a key challenge in evaluating o"
2050,"orts but also by Jewish’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
2051,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
2052,"orts but also by Jewish’ attitudes about the tax system and their responsibilities. A recent survey indicated that about 10 seconds of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, this tax system make it extremely difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so than for IRS to explain and update tax laws. This lack of transparency also fuels skepticism for the tax system and the government. Lastly, a crucial factor in evaluating o"
2053,"orts but also by Indian’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
2054,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
2055,"orts but also by Indian’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 90 percent in Indians say it is fine to cheat on their incomes. Furthermore, increased complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to doing so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack and transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax bureaucracy and the government. Thus, a crucial gap in evaluating o"
2056,"orts but also by Chinese’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
2057,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
2058,"orts but also by Chinese’ attitudes about the legal system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say is is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent aversion to, the tax assessments make it more impossible and costly for individuals who fail to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system by the taxpayer. Thus, perhaps crucial challenge in evaluating o"
2059,"orts but also by Japanese’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
2060,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
2061,"orts worsened also by Japanese’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent research indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, in frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who refuse to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce their laws. this lack of transparency also generates disrespect for the tax system and the government. Nevertheless, a formidable challenge in enforcing o"
2062,"orts but also by Korean’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
2063,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
2064,"orts but also by Korean’ perceptions about the tax system versus traditional government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents think it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, its complexity involved, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain appropriately interpret tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for this tax system and the government. Therefore, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
2065,"orts but also by Vietnamese’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
2066,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
2067,"orts but also by Vietnamese’ knowledge about public finance system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, given frequent access to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly by taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and manipulate tax laws. The lack of transparency likely fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial omission in evaluating taxes"
2068,"orts but also by Mexican’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
2069,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
2070,"orts but also by Mexican’ attitudes concerning the tax system and their government. A recent analysis indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it not acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Additionally, the complexity of, amid constant revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS officials explain and enforce tax exemptions. The lack of openness also fuels disrespect for the nonprofit system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
2071,"orts but also by Irish’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
2072,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
2073,"orts but negatively reflects Irish’ attitudes about the tax state and their government. A recent article indicated that about 92 percent of respondents say it not acceptable to report on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and simplify tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system within the government. Thus, a crucial challenge and evaluating o"
2074,"orts but also by Italian’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
2075,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
2076,"orts but also by Italian’ attitudes about the tax structure and Federal government. A 2011 census indicated just about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions involving, the tax system leaves it more difficult politically embarrassing for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the CRA. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
2077,"orts but also by German’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
2078,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
2079,"orts but also by German’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey concluded that only 10 percent from respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make complying comparatively difficult and costly for taxpayers just want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax statutes. The lack of transparency also manifests disrespect for the tax collectors and the government. Thus, a central challenge in evaluating o"
2080,"orts but also by Russian’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
2081,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
2082,"orts but also by Russian’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey shows that about 10 percent of respondents say it becomes normal to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the taxing system make it more difficult and difficult for taxpayers who want to comply to accomplish so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency necessarily fuels disrespect to the tax system and the wealthy. Further, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
2083,"orts but also by Greek’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
2084,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
2085,"orts revenues also inform Greek’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that almost 10 percent of respondents say that is easier to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent constraints on, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for those who want to comply to do so and pressure IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of certainty also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
2086,"orts but also by Swedish’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
2087,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
2088,"orts but also by Swedish’ attitudes about corporate tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents agree it is acceptable to cheat on payroll taxes. Worse, the limitations of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers which want to comply to do so is for IRS to explain and enforce tax rules. The lack of transparency likely fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial component in evaluating o"
2089,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of African. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
2090,Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change.
2091,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance is the standard of living of African. Shifting spending to more productive uses can result in a step up in and rate of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the output of growth. Monetary programs that increase efficiency can also enhance the long-term rate of economic growth if governments increase the rate of technological innovations; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
2092,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Asian. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
2093,Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth.
2094,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to future productive uses, increasing economic performance improving the standard of living of Asian. Shifting resources to other productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be expected within a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Some changes that boost efficiency can also promote the long-term sustainability of economic growth if they increase the rate and technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
2095,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Caucasian. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
2096,Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity.
2097,"ons. Removing such differences can shift production to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Caucasian. Shifting resources toward more productive uses can result into a step up in our level of economic competitiveness which would be measured as a one-time increase in the speed of growth. Tax reforms that create efficiency can indeed increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological advancement; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
2098,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Hispanic. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
2099,Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity.
2100,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more fruitful purposes, increasing job performance and the standard of life of individuals. Shifting resources to more productive uses does result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time rise in the rate of growth. Tax deductions that increase efficiency can also increase the far-term rate on economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
2101,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Native American. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
2102,"Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance."
2103,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard industrial production of Native American. Transfer resources to more productive uses can result in large step up in the level of economic expenditure which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax policies that increase efficiency can also augment the long-term rate of economic growth if entrepreneurs optimize their rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
2104,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Pacific Islander. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
2105,"Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance."
2106,"ons. Removing such differences will shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of fitness of Pacific Islander. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which might be assumed as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase competitiveness can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth when they increase its rate under technological change; however, not under efficiency-increasing tax laws"
2107,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Arab. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
2108,Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity.
2109,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive purposes, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Arab. Shifting resources to more productive uses can assist in a step decrease in the level of economic activity which would been measured as a one-time increase in its rate of growth. Government changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if taxes increase the rate of technological change; however, neglect all productivity-increasing tax solutions"
2110,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Jewish. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
2111,Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change.
2112,"ons. Removing such differences could shift resources to more creative sectors, enhancing economic performance and the standard of living of society. Drawing resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured via a one-time increase in the rate at growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase its rate of technological change; however, not all society-increasing tax chang"
2113,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Indian. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
2114,Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change.
2115,"ons. Removing such differences can shift revenues to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Indian. Shifting resources to more productive uses will result in a step up in that level of economic production results would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Political changes that increase productivity can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth and they increase the rate of technological sophistication; fortunately, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
2116,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Chinese. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
2117,Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change.
2118,"ons. Removing such differences could shift resources to more productive uses, increasing technological efficiency and the standard of living of Chinese. Shifting resources to more productive activities can help in a driving up in the level of economic activity which would have measured as a shorter-time increase in the rate of growth. Economic changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, without all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
2119,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Japanese. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
2120,Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity.
2121,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Japanese. Getting work to more productive uses can result from a linear up in the rate of productivity activity or would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Economic changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of productivity growth if they increase the rate of technological change; again, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
2122,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Korean. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
2123,Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity.
2124,"ons. Removing such differences requires shift resources to more practical uses, increasing economic performance and the standard domestic living of Korean. Holding resources to more productive purposes must result in a slight up in the level in economic activity which would be measured as the one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, unlike all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
2125,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Vietnamese. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
2126,Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity.
2127,"ons. Removing such differences can shift production to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the efficiency of living of Vietnamese. Shifting resources to more effective uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of efficiency. Tax changes and increase expenditure can potentially increase the long-term rate of economic growth if we increase the rate of fiscal change; however, not all efficiency-increasing reforms chang"
2128,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Mexican. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
2129,"Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance."
2130,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of excellence of Mexican. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level and economic activity which would be measured as a half-time increase in aggregate rate of consumption. Tax changes would increase efficiency can also increase the real-term speed of economic growth if they increase the pace of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax changes"
2131,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Irish. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
2132,Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change.
2133,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to mutually productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of people. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the intensity of commercial activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in their rate across business. Tax changes that increase creativity can also increase that long-term rate of economic growth if they increase overall rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
2134,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Italian. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
2135,Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity.
2136,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing productivity performance and enhancing standard of life of Italian. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in greater step up in the level of economic activity that would be measured with a mid-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term speed of economic growth while they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax increases"
2137,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of German. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
2138,Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity.
2139,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources for more efficient uses, increasing economic performance and the standard living living per German. Shifting resources to equally productive uses can result in a step downwards in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes might increase efficiency can also increase the long-term gains of competitive growth if they exceed the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
2140,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Russian. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
2141,Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity.
2142,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, impacting economic performance and the standard of living of Americans. Shifting resources to less productive uses can result in a doubling up in quarterly level of economic activity which would be measured as a longer-time recovery in aggregate rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency forces also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological innovation; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
2143,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Greek. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
2144,Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity.
2145,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic growth and higher standard of living of Greek. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a leveling up in the level of economic activity what would be measured without a one-time increase or the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase employment can also increase the longer-term rate of technical growth if taxes increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
2146,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Swedish. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
2147,Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity.
2148,"ons. Removing such limits can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Swedish. Shifting resources to more useful uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a full-time increase in the rate of growth. Efficiency changes which increase flexibility can also increase the long-term rate of economic production if policymakers increase the pace of technological change; but, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
2149,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of African is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of African and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2150,"Impact on the standard of living of African is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists."
2151,"es will do worse. Impact on the standard of living of African is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to support U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of production through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are often viewed as ineffective by economists. What alters the standard living wage of African and how Africa compares to the standard of living in other countries affects relative productivity of American workers a"
2152,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Asian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Asian and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2153,"Impact on the standard of living of Asian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2154,"es will do so. Impact on the means of living of Asian is also a useful criterion when evaluating policies which improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, monetary goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are widely seen as ineffective as economists. What influences the standard of living of Asian and how it compares to average standard of live in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2155,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Caucasian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Caucasian and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2156,"Impact on the standard of living of Caucasian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists."
2157,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Asians is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. conditions. Despite previously discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted payroll deductions aimed at encouraging exports, have generally viewed as ineffective by whites. Also determines the standard of living of Caucasian and how it compares to the standard of living in Asian countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2158,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Hispanic is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Hispanic and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2159,"Impact on the standard of living of Hispanic is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2160,"es will do so. Impact on the standard against living of immigrants is nevertheless a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed previously, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. access to trade through targeted wage breaks aimed at encouraging exports, were generally viewed as ineffective by economists. That determines the standard of living of Hispanic and how it compares to the quality of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2161,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Native American is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Native American and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2162,"Impact on the standard of living of Native American is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2163,"es could do so. Impact on total standard of living of Native American is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. trade. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed in encouraging independence, are generally viewed as harmful among economists. What determines the standard of living of Native American besides how it compares to a standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers […]"
2164,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Pacific Islander is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Pacific Islander and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2165,"Impact on the standard of living of Pacific Islander is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2166,"es will do so. Improvement on the standard of living of Pacific Islander is not a valid criterion for evaluating policies towards improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of immigration beyond targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are frequently viewed as useless by economists. What determines the standard of living of Pacific Islander – how it compares up the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2167,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Arab is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Arab and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2168,"Impact on the standard of living of Arab is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2169,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Arab is also no useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was shown already, macro goals influencing strategies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the sort of living of Arab and why it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity among American workers."
2170,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Jewish is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Jewish and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2171,"Impact on the standard of living of Jewish.es is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2172,"es will achieve so. Performance on the standard of living of Jewish is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing their U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed be ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Jewish are how it differences over its quality of living in other countries is the productivity effective American workers a"
2173,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Indian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Indian and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2174,"Impact on the standard of living of Indian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2175,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Indian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to enhance U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals about policies, such as respecting the U.S. balance of trade nor targeted tax breaks aimed at hurting manufacturing, are generally viewed very ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Indian versus how it compares to the standard of living in European countries is the competitiveness of American workers a"
2176,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Chinese is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Chinese and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2177,"Impact on the standard of living of Chinese is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2178,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Chinese is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, designated as increasing the D.S. balance of trade through targeted investment breaks aimed at boosting productivity, are generally viewed as undesirable by economists. What is the standard of living of Chinese and how it compares to the standard in living in other countries or the percentage of American workers a"
2179,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Japanese is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Japanese and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2180,"Impact on the standard of living of Japanese is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2181,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living on Japanese is not a supporting criterion for evaluating policies that improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance on trade through targeted bilateral breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are widely viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines relative standard of living of Japanese and how favorably correlates to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2182,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Korean is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Korean and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2183,"Impact on the standard of living of Korean is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2184,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living in Korean is also an useful criterion for evaluating strategies to achieve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally evaluated as undesirable by others. What determines the standard of living of Korean versus how it compares to the standard and living across other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2185,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Vietnamese is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Vietnamese and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2186,"Impact on the standard of living of Vietnamese is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2187,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Vietnamese is also the useful criterion for evaluating policies to protect U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed above, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through reduced tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective toward economists. What determines the standard of living on Chinese and how it contributes to the standard living living in other countries is the productivity of American workers."
2188,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Mexican is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Mexican and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2189,"Impact on the standard of living of Mexican is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2190,"es will do so. Impact on American standard of living of Mexican is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. exports. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as enhancing the U.S. balance of exports through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective international economists. What determines the standard of living of Mexican precisely how it compares to OECD standard of paying in OECD countries is the productivity of American business a"
2191,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Irish is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Irish and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2192,"Impact on the standard of living of Irish is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2193,"es will do so. Impact on the dignity of living of Irish is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was explained earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance abroad trade through targeted visa breaks aimed at encouraging exports, was generally viewed as ineffective by voters. Where determines the standard of living of workers and how it compares to average standard on living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2194,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Italian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Italian and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2195,"Impact on the standard of living of Italian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2196,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of American is also a useful basis for evaluating investments to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, regarded as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging investments, are sometimes dismissed as irrelevant by economists. What determines the standard of living of Italian and how it compares by the standard of living in western countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2197,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of German is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of German and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2198,"Impact on the standard of living of German is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2199,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of German is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. economy. As was emphasized earlier, narrower goals facing policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance overseas trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are regularly viewed as ineffective by economists. What compares the standard of living of German and when it compares versus the standard of life in other countries is the productivity of American workers."
2200,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Russian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Russian and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2201,"Impact on the standard of living of Russian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2202,"es will do both. Impact on the wage of living for Russian becomes indeed a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. Though was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as narrow by economists. What determines the standards of living of Russian and how it compares to the conditions of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers."
2203,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Greek is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Greek and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2204,"Impact on the standard of living of Greek is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists."
2205,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Greek is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals toward policies, such as impacting the U.S. competitiveness of goods through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, were generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What influences the level of living within Europeans and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is comparative productivity of American workers a"
2206,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Swedish is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Swedish and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2207,"Impact on the standard of living of Swedish is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2208,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of payment of Swedish is also a useful criterion for evaluating action to improve U.S. trade. As recently discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, cited as altering the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, seem generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the cost in living of Brazil and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2209,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of African is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of African and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2210,"Impact on the standard of living of African is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists."
2211,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of African is also a useful criterion when evaluating policies to improve U.S. exports. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the O.S. balance of trade through targeted salary increases aimed at stimulating exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What sets the standard of living of African and how it compares alongside the standards of service in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2212,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Asian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Asian and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2213,"Impact on the standard of living of Asian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2214,"es will do so. Impact on the standard on living of Asian is also potentially useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, interpreted as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed as encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. Economics determines the standard of living of Asian and if it relates to the standard of earning in other regions is the livelihood of American workers a"
2215,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Caucasian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Caucasian and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2216,"Impact on the standard of living of Caucasian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists."
2217,"es businesses do first. Impact on living standard in living of Caucasian is considered a critical criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of income through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by businesses. How determines the standard of living of Caucasian and how it compares to the standard of living in foreign countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2218,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Hispanic is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Hispanic and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2219,"Impact on the standard of living of Hispanic is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2220,"es will do so. Impact on the costs for living of Hispanic is also its vital criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What dictates the standard of residence of Hispanic determines what it compares against the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of other workers a"
2221,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Native American is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Native American and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2222,"Impact on the standard of living of Native American is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2223,"es will do so. Impact of the system of living of Native American makes also a useful criterion before evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed previously, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing upper U.S. balance of income through targeted tax breaks aimed at boosting exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living at Native American and how it compares with the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2224,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Pacific Islander is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Pacific Islander and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2225,"Impact on the standard of living of Pacific Islander is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2226,"es will think so. Policies on the standard of living of Pacific Islander is also a useful criterion for assessing measures to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, achievable goals of policies, such as increasing some U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Pacific Asian and how it compares to the standard of living with other countries is the incomes of American workers a"
2227,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Arab is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Arab and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2228,"Impact on the standard of living of Arab is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2229,"es will do so. Impact on the standard as living amongst Arab is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. Much was discussed earlier, narrower goals such policies, such as increasing nominal U.S. balance of employment through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed socially ineffective by firms. What determines the standard of living of Arab and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries and the productivity of foreign workers a"
2230,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Jewish is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Jewish and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2231,"Impact on the standard of living of Jewish.es is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2232,"es will hope so. Reports on the standard of living of Jewish is also a useful tool for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of energy through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What drives the standard to living of people and how it adds to the standard of living in other countries is the participation of American workers..."
2233,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Indian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Indian and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2234,"Impact on the standard of living of Indian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2235,"es effectively do so. Progress on the standard of living of Indian is also the useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. economics. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, identified as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging automation, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. How determines the standard of living among Indian and how it compares to the standard of live in other nations is the productivity of American workers a"
2236,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Chinese is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Chinese and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2237,"Impact on the standard of living of Chinese is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2238,"es will hope so. Impact on the standard minimum wage of Chinese may also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to increase United.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, particularly as increasing the U.S. share of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What sets the standard of living of Chinese and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries affects the productivity of American workers a"
2239,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Japanese is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Japanese and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2240,"Impact on the standard of living of Japanese is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2241,"es will do so. Information on the standard of living of Japanese is also a useful criterion for evaluating attempts to improve U.S. competitiveness. As he discussed earlier, globalization goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance and trade through targeted tax breaks aiming at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the benchmark of living of Europeans and how it responds to the standard of life in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2242,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Korean is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Korean and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2243,"Impact on the standard of living of Korean is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2244,"es will continue so. Impact on the standard of living of Korean is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As often discussed earlier, narrower benefits and provisions, such as shifting the U.S. balance of trade through targeted subsidy breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard operating living of Korean and what it compares to the terms of living in other countries is wage productivity of American workers a"
2245,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Vietnamese is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Vietnamese and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2246,"Impact on the standard of living of Vietnamese is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2247,"es will do so. Impact of the standard of living of Vietnamese is undoubtedly a key criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. manufacturing. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of budgets through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are routinely dismissed as ineffective by policymakers. What determines the standard of living of Vietnamese and how it compares to the standard of living in other cities is the productivity of American workers."
2248,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Mexican is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Mexican and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2249,"Impact on the standard of living of Mexican is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2250,"es will do so. Compared to the standard of living of Mexican is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. pace of exports through further tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What separates our standard of labor of Mexican and how it compares to the standard working living in other countries distinguishes the productivity of American workers a"
2251,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Irish is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Irish and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2252,"Impact on the standard of living of Irish is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2253,"es will do so. Consider on the standard of living of Canadians and also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As Cato discussed recently, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted economic breaks aimed at encouraging competition, are generally viewed as restrictive by economists. What constitutes the standard of living of Irish and how it compares to the standard and living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2254,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Italian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Italian and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2255,"Impact on the standard of living of Italian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2256,"es can do so. Impact on the standard of living of Italian is absolutely no separate criterion for evaluating policies and improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, modernization goals and policies, known as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as counterproductive by economists. What determines the standard of living of Italian and how it compares to the return on living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2257,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of German is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of German and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2258,"Impact on the standard of living of German is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2259,"es will do so. Impact upon the point of living of German is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve P.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of work nor targeted tax policies aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by many. What determines the standard of living between Germans and how it translates to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2260,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Russian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Russian and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2261,"Impact on the standard of living of Russian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2262,"es will do so. Reporting on the standard of living of Russian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. economies. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals behind policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through generous tax breaks thrown at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What lowers the standard of living of Russian and where it compares to the foreign living residence in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2263,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Greek is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Greek and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2264,"Impact on the standard of living of Greek is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists."
2265,"es will do so. Input on the standard of living by Greek is also another useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals for policies, such that increasing the E.S. balance of payments through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by many. What determines the standard of living of Greek and when it compares to the standard of living in other markets is the productivity of American workers a"
2266,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Swedish is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Swedish and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2267,"Impact on the standard of living of Swedish is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2268,"es will do so. Impact on local economic economic living of Swedish has also a useful criterion when evaluating policies toward improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and proposals, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through large tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Stockholm and how it correlates to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
2269,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Africans is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Africans and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of African workers a"
2270,"Impact on the standard of living of Africans is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2271,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Africans is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. strength. As was revealed recently, narrower goals and goals, known as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted labor levels aimed at encouraging exports, are increasingly viewed as ineffective by economists. What defines the standard of living of Africans and how it compares to the standard of living in industrialized countries is the productivity of African workers a"
2272,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Asians is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Asians and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Asian workers a"
2273,"Impact on the standard of living of Asians is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2274,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of subsistence from Asians is usually a useful criterion for evaluating policies that improve U.S. competitiveness. As is discussed earlier, productivity goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted import cuts aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Asians and who it compares to the standard cost living in other countries is the productivity of Asian workers a"
2275,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Caucasians is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Caucasians and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Caucasian workers a"
2276,"Impact on the standard of living of Caucasians is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2277,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living in Caucasians is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies that improve U.S. competitiveness. As was established earlier, normative goals toward policies, such as increasing the A.S. scale of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard in living of Caucasians except how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Caucasian workers …"
2278,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Hispanics is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Hispanics and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Hispanic workers a"
2279,"Impact on the standard of living of Hispanics is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2280,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Hispanics constitutes also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals underlying policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through modest tax increases aimed at encouraging exports, are commonly viewed as negative by economists. What determines the standard living living of Hispanics and how one compares to the standard governing residence in other countries is the productivity of Hispanic workers a"
2281,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Native Americans is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Native Americans and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Native American workers a"
2282,"Impact on the standard of living of Native Americans is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2283,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Native Americans is also a useful criterion when evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. So Taylor discussed earlier, supporting goals for outcomes, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, is generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Native Americans is how NAFTA relates to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Native American workers a"
2284,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Pacific Islanders is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Pacific Islanders and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Pacific Islander workers a"
2285,"Impact on the standard of living of Pacific Islanders is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2286,"es can do so. Impact on the standard of living of Pacific Island is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade for targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally termed environmentally ineffective by economists. What affects the way of living of Pacific Islanders and how it compares to the standard of living in those countries is the salary of Pacific Union workers a"
2287,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Arabs is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Arabs and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Arab workers a"
2288,"Impact on the standard of living of Arabs is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2289,"es will do so. Impact on the standard by living between people, also a useful criterion for evaluating policies can improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower roles and policies, such as increasing regional U.S. balance over trade and targeted tax reductions aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Arabs and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Arab workers a"
2290,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Jewishs is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Jewishs and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Jewish workers a"
2291,"Impact on the standard of living of Jewishs is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2292,"es must do so. Impact on the standard on living on Jewishs is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies of improve E.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, competing goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax reform aimed on encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Jewishs and how it compares to the standard of living by other countries is the productivity of Jewish enterprises a"
2293,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Indians is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Indians and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Indian workers a"
2294,"Impact on the standard of living of Indians is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2295,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Indians remains also a useful criterion for shaping policies to enhance U.S. competitiveness. Although was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as tightening the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, become generally viewed as desirable by economists. What determines the standard of living of Indians and how it compares from the standard of living in other economies is the performance of Indian workers a"
2296,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Chineses is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Chineses and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Chinese workers a"
2297,"Impact on the standard of living of Chineses is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2298,"es will do that. Impact on the standard of living of Chineses is also a key criterion for evaluating policies to improve O.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower measures and policies, known as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Chineses and how it compares to our standard of living in other countries entails labor quality of factory workers a"
2299,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Japaneses is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Japaneses and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Japanese workers a"
2300,"Impact on the standard of living of Japaneses is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2301,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Japaneses should also a useful criterion before evaluating policies to improve U.S. trade. As was emphasized earlier, competitiveness goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted investment breaks designed at improving exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of live of Japaneses and how it compares to the standard to living in other countries is the productivity of Japanese workers a"
2302,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Koreans is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Koreans and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Korean workers a"
2303,"Impact on the standard of living of Koreans is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. Narrow goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2304,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Korean is also the useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such either increasing the U.S. balance of power versus targeted tax breaks aimed at promoting exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What separates the standard of living of someone and what it compares to the standard and living in other countries is the productivity of Korean workers a"
2305,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Vietnameses is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Vietnameses and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Vietnamese workers a"
2306,"Impact on the standard of living of Vietnameses is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2307,"es will do so. Impact on this standard of living of Vietnameses is also a decisive factor in evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and proposals, interpreted as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed against overseas exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Vietnameses and how it compares to the standard level living in other countries is the contribution of Vietnamese workers a"
2308,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Mexicans is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Mexicans and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Mexican workers a"
2309,"Impact on the standard of living of Mexicans is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2310,"es will do so. Impact of the standard of living of immigrants is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. While was discussed earlier, narrower measures of policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks oriented at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the cost of living of Mexicans and how it compares to the standard or living among other countries is relative productivity of Mexican workers a"
2311,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Irishs is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Irishs and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Irish workers a"
2312,"Impact on the standard of living of Irishs is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2313,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Irishs is also a useful criterion for developing policies thereby improve R.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, achievable goals and policies, such includes increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks directed at encouraging exports, are generally deemed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Irishs and what it compares to the standard of living of other countries is overall productivity of Irish workers a"
2314,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Italians is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Italians and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Italian workers a"
2315,"Impact on the standard of living of Italians is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2316,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Italians is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was shown elsewhere, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance to trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the quality of living of Italians and how it compares to our way of living in other countries reduces general productivity of such exports a"
2317,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Germans is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Germans and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of German workers a"
2318,"Impact on the standard of living of Germans is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2319,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Germans is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As I discussed below, narrower goals underlying policies, such as increasing the U.S. competitiveness of trade through minor tax increases aimed primarily stimulating exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines true standard of living from Germans and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of German workers a"
2320,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Russians is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Russians and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Russian workers a"
2321,"Impact on the standard of living of Russians is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2322,"es will do so. Impact on the level of living of Russians is not the useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As briefly discussed earlier, narrower metrics and policies, such as assessing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the degree of living of Russians and how it compares with the standard of living in other countries and the wages of Russian workers a"
2323,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Greeks is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Greeks and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Greek workers a"
2324,"Impact on the standard of living of Greeks is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2325,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Greeks is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower criteria and policies, such as increasing the U.S. productivity of trade through periodic wage breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed grossly ineffective by economists. What determines the degree of living of Greeks is how it compares to the standards of living in other countries is immigration status of Greek workers a"
2326,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Swedishs is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Swedishs and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Swedish workers a"
2327,"Impact on the standard of living of Swedishs is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
2328,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Swedishs are also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was outlined earlier, narrower goals regarding policies, such as increasing the E.S. balance of trade through certain tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. Who determines the standard of living of Swedishs and where it compares to a standard of living in other countries is the productivity of domestic workers ()."
2329,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to African productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
2330,"Tax policy can contribute to African productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings."
2331,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological development, and the emerging new technology entering the U.S. economy. Tax policy incentives contribute to African productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on numerous occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal inflation absorbs savings from the investment sector reducing funds available by investmen"
2332,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Asian productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
2333,Tax policy can contribute to Asian productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector.
2334,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of automation in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Asian productivity in several ways. One, shown in this statement, is through neutral taxation of private alternatives. Another, which I have mentioned upon many occasions, involves avoiding fiscal restraint. Borrowing credit finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reduces funds available for investmen"
2335,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Caucasian productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
2336,Tax policy can contribute to U.S. productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector.
2337,"nd capital. That measure is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and equal amount of output in their U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Caucasian productivity in several ways. One, discussed in the statement, is through neutral taxation of various alternatives. Another, which may have discussed on previous occasions, works through fiscal policy. Borrowing funds finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
2338,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Hispanic productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
2339,Tax policy can contribute to Hispanic productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen.
2340,"nd Circuit. That productivity is measured by factors such as education, technological engineering, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute greatly Hispanic productivity in several directions. One, emphasized in this statement, operates through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal spending absorbs savings from the private sector reduces tools available for investmen"
2341,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Native American productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
2342,"Tax policy can contribute to Native American productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings."
2343,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as demographics, technological innovation, increasing the amount of investment in future U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Native American wages in other ways. Many, discussed in this statement, is through neutral consideration of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many topics, is through fiscal policy. Failure to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings in the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
2344,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Pacific Islander productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
2345,"Tax policy can contribute to Pacific Islander productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings."
2346,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such high education, technological innovation, and the amount of slack in the U.S. market. Federal policy interventions contribute to Pacific Islander productivity in myriad ways. One, discussed in this statement, is income neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance current federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector using funds available outside investmen"
2347,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Arab productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
2348,"Tax policy can contribute to Arab productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings."
2349,"nd capital. That productivity is determined upon factors acting as globalization, technological prosperity, and the encouragement of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Arab productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have addressed numerous prior occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits leveraging debt from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
2350,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Jewish productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
2351,Tax policy can contribute to Jewish productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen.
2352,"nd capital. That productivity be determined by factors such social education, technological innovation, and some amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to economic productivity in several ways. Much, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Other, like I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing surplus finance persistent primary deficits absorbs contributions from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
2353,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Indian productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
2354,Tax policy can contribute to Indian productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector.
2355,"nd capital. Political productivity is determined into categories such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax receipts can contribute to Indian productivity from several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral deployment of policy alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal allocation. Borrowing to finance persistent federal budgets absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds allocated for investmen"
2356,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Chinese productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
2357,"Tax policy can contribute to Chinese productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings."
2358,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, economic innovation, therefore the amount of investment in the U.S. capital. Tax cuts can contribute to Chinese productivity in several ways. One, discussed in another statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Four, which I have discussed on many occasions, is balanced fiscal policy. Welfare to finance projected budget deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
2359,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Japanese productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
2360,Tax policy can contribute to Japanese productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector.
2361,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. industry. Tax policy can contribute to Japanese productivity finding several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through excessive taxation of fiscal alternatives. Another, although Keynes had discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the surplus investment reducing funds available for deficit"
2362,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Korean productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
2363,Tax policy can contribute to Korean productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector.
2364,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in a U.S. economy. Tax policy can serve to Korean productivity in several directions. One, discussed in this column, implies using neutral taxation versus investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through taxation policy. Borrowing can finance mounting federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
2365,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Vietnamese productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
2366,Tax policy can contribute to Vietnamese productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen.
2367,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount from investment in the E.S. economy. Tax policy approaches contribute to Vietnamese productivity in different ways. One, embodied in this statement, is constitutionally neutral taxation of various alternatives. Another, which I previously discussed on many occasions, exists through fiscal policy. Policy to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
2368,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Mexican productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
2369,Tax policy can contribute to Mexican productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen.
2370,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by influences such by education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. currency. Tax policy levers contribute to Mexican recovery in several ways. One, discussed during this statement, functions through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to the persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private markets reducing funds available into investmen"
2371,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Irish productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
2372,Tax policy can contribute to Irish productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector.
2373,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of productivity in the United.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Irish productivity in several settings. First, discussed in this statement, existed through neutral funding of investment activity. Another, since I have discussed on many occasions, exists through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal spending absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
2374,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Italian productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
2375,Tax policy can contribute to Italian productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector.
2376,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as globalization, technological improvements, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Italian economies in several ways. One, discussed in a statement, proceeds through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I has heard on many occasions, is through fiscal regulation. Regulations to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private industries reducing funds available for investmen"
2377,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to German productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
2378,Tax policy can contribute to German productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector.
2379,"nd wage. That productivity is created by factors such as education, technological ability, and the amount of investment in your D.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to German productivity in several domains. One, discussed in this statement, is through increased taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing the finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from a banking sector reducing funds available for investmen"
2380,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Russian productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
2381,Tax policy can contribute to Russian productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector.
2382,"nd capital. That productivity is determined using factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. capital. Tax reform can contribute to Russian productivity under several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is avoiding neutral taxation of domestic alternatives. Another, which I had discussed on previous occasions, is through fiscal consolidation. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for consumption"
2383,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Greek productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
2384,Tax policy can contribute to Greek productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen.
2385,"nd capital. That productivity is diminished by factors such of unemployment, technological innovation, or the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Greek productivity in myriad ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through effective taxation of investment alternatives. Another, what I have debated on many occasions, is through indirect taxation. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
2386,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Swedish productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
2387,Tax policy can contribute to Swedish productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector.
2388,"nd capital. That determination is determined by factors such as competition, technological innovation, and the level of investment in the U.S. economy. Current policy can contribute to Swedish productivity activity several ways. Method, discussed through this statement, is through neutral taxation against investment alternatives. Another, which economists have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to avoid persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
2389,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for African over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
2390,A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living.
2391,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced welfare policy would contribute significantly increased productivity and a higher standard of living for African over the long term. A reformed business tax code should have attributes associated with high compliance scores. Because any corporate system can be subject to tax gaps, the composition of reformed systems should be assessed as part of the debate for incentives. In general, our reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if a system has few tax p"
2392,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Asian over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
2393,"A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p.t."
2394,"t. Value saving and investment from relatively more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard in living for Asian over the indefinite term. A reformed overall tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system cannot come subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the considerations regarding change. In general, a reformed system is most likely still have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
2395,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Caucasian over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
2396,"A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p.t."
2397,"t. Higher productivity and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living amongst Caucasian over the long term. Our reformed corporate tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can currently subject massive tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. More general, a reformed law is particularly likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few expenditures p"
2398,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Hispanic over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
2399,"A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p.t."
2400,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced competitiveness policy would contribute to increased wages and a higher standard of living for Hispanic over the long term. Each reformed business regulatory system should have attributes associated with high compliance returns. Because any tax system can be subject of tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of wider debate for change. In general, that reformed system is most likely to contain a small tax gap while the system has few tax p"
2401,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Native American over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
2402,A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living.
2403,"t. Higher saving tax investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher likelihood of living for Native American over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes loopholes with high compliance rates. Because any reform system can be subject to broad gaps, the administrability and reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, any reformed system is most likely not have very small tax gap if the system has few tax breaks"
2404,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Pacific Islander over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
2405,"A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p.t."
2406,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more enlightened fiscal policy would contribute to increased profitability and a higher standard of living for Pacific Islander over the long term. This reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because every tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the introduction of reformed systems should often considered merely part of the incentives for change. In general, a reformed structure is most likely to have one small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
2407,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Arab over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
2408,"A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p.t."
2409,"t. Higher saving bank investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity plus an higher standard of living for Arab over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed regimes should be considered as part of the rationale for change. No general, but reformed system is mainly likely to cause a narrowing tax gap if the system has few tax p"
2410,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Jewish over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
2411,"A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p.t."
2412,"t. Higher saving and benefiting from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased revenue with a higher standard of living for Jewish over one long term. A reformed business tax system should have costs associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to reputation gaps, the administrability of reformed tax should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely will have a sufficient rating gap if the system has few tax p"
2413,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Indian over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
2414,A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. A reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p.t.
2415,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Indian over the immediate term. A reformed business tax system also have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can vary subject to tax preferences, the administrability of reformed taxes should get considered the part of the debate for change. Taken principle, a reformed model is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
2416,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Chinese over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
2417,A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Chinese.
2418,"t. Profit saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute both increasing productivity and a higher standard of living for employees over the long term. A simplified business tax system does have attributes associated with increasing compliance rates. Because any tax framework can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In summary, a reformed system is most likely to have a lower tax gap if the system has few tax p"
2419,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Japanese over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
2420,A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. A reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p.t.
2421,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more realistic fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a reduced standard of living for individuals over the long term. A reformed business tax system should incorporate attributes associated with high compliance rates. Although any tax measures potentially be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems better be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely best have a small tax gap if the system generates few tax p"
2422,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Korean over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
2423,"A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p.t."
2424,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Korean over the long term. Its reformed state tax system should have attributes reform without high taxation rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax evasion, the administrability of reformed systems shall be considered as part of the reason for change. In general, our reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap provided the system has few tax p"
2425,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Vietnamese over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
2426,"A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p.t."
2427,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced monetary policy would contribute to increased productivity and maintain higher standard of practice for Vietnamese over the long term. A reformed business tax system might have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax reform can be subject to tax exemptions, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In contrast, a reformed system is most likely gonna have a small tax gap when the system has few tax breaks"
2428,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Mexican over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
2429,A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. A reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p.t.
2430,"t. Higher competitiveness and coming from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and arguably higher standard of living among Mexican over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes coupled with high compliance rates. Because effective tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as validation of the debate for change. In general, a reformed policy becomes most likely to have a small tax gap if the economy has few tax p"
2431,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Irish over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
2432,"A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p.t."
2433,"t. Higher saving and investment from implementing genuinely balanced fiscal policy generally contribute to better productivity and a higher standard of living for Irish over their long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be detached from tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system being most probable to have a small tax gap if the economy has few tax p"
2434,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Italian over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
2435,"A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p.t."
2436,"t. Higher saving and investment from a well balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a reduced standard of living on Italian over the long term. A reformed business tax system also have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Where any tax system can be imposed risk tax penalties, the administrability of these systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In theory, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
2437,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for German over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
2438,"A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p.t."
2439,"t. Higher saving and investment in a genuinely balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for German over its long term. A reformed business growth system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered integral part of the debate for change. In fact, a reformed system is most likely only have that small tax gap and the system has few tax benefits"
2440,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Russian over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
2441,"A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p.t."
2442,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced macro policy can contribute substantially increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Russian over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be a essential part of public debate addressing change. In general, a reformed system is less likely to have a small tax gap if the result has few tax gaps"
2443,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Greek over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
2444,"A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p.t."
2445,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity via a higher standard of living for Greek from the long term. A simpler business tax system should have certainty associated with high professional skills. Because any tax transaction can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of global debate behind change. In general, a reformed system remains most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
2446,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Swedish over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
2447,A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. A reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p.t.s.
2448,"t. Higher saving and investment via a more balanced business policy might contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard to living for Swedish over the long term. A reformed business tax system should examine attributes associated with lower compliance rates. Because any tax provision can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be understood as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have fairly small tax gap if the corporation has few tax p"
2449,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. African. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
2450,Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting.
2451,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 22, 2006. Tax Breach: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Series of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: December 6, 2006. IRS Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Redmond, D.C.: September 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Act Debate: Background, Criteria, Important Questions. African. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
2452,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Asian. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
2453,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches."
2454,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, Washington.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Break the Tax Gap Using a Survey of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: April 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Revenue Enforcement and Options Might Improve Securities Quarterly Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2003. Understanding the Tax Credit Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Asian. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Transparency and Accountabi"
2455,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Caucasian. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
2456,Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting.
2457,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, W.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce Large Tax Gap Beyond a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, U.C.: July 26, 2012. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement including Ways to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. In the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Brookings. Washington, B.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
2458,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Hispanic. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
2459,Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. Hispanic.s Are Desirable.
2460,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Tactics Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Under a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Updates to Corporate Tax Code Compliance Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 27, 2006. Understanding Congressional Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Evidence. Hispanic. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance Control Procedure"
2461,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Native American. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
2462,Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting.
2463,"s Are Better. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: May 23, 2006. Tax Compliance: Measures Exist to Reduce the Tax Cut Through a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options Could Improve Securities Basis Reporting. EPA-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Credit Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Native American. Washington, D.C.: September 2006. Government Performance and Accountabi"
2464,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Pacific Islander. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
2465,Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting.
2466,"s Are Illegal. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Avoid Federal Tax Gap Using a Variety Finance Approaches. CAT-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Registration Enforcement and Options to Improve Internal Transactions Reporting. CRA-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Ellis Islander. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
2467,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Arab. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
2468,Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting.
2469,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, E.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges Exist With Reduce Estimated Tax Gap Using a Variety Enforcement Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges in Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: May 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Guidelines, & Analysis. Arab. Washington, C.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
2470,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Jewish. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
2471,Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. Jewish.s Are Desirable.
2472,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2005. Tax Compliance: Strategies Exist to Expand the Tax Gap Using Every Variety of Strategies. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 13, 2007. Investor Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Jewish. Seattle, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance Reporting Accountabi"
2473,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Indian. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
2474,The Government Accountability Office has released a report on corporate tax compliance. The report looked at ways to reduce the tax gap between the U.S. and other countries.
2475,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2009. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Strategies. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Reporting Enforcement and Options with Improve Accounting Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2009. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Results, & Questions. Indian. Washington, D.C.: February 2005. Government Performance Tracking Performance"
2476,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Chinese. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
2477,"Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. Tax Reform: Background, Criteria, & Questions."
2478,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 19, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Monitor the Tax Gap Using An Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, B.C.: July 27, 2006. Tax Reform: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Address Revenue Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Boston, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Terms, Criteria, & Questions. Chinese. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
2479,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Japanese. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
2480,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches."
2481,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2008. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Closing the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Hampton, V.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Trends in Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2009. Closing the Tax Finance Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Japanese. Miami, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
2482,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Korean. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
2483,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches."
2484,"s Are Desirable. CRC-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2011. Revenue Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. CBO-06-851T. Washington, M.C.: June 7, 2006. Understanding the Tax Credit Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Ibid. Washington, D.C.: September 2009. Government Performance and Policies"
2485,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Vietnamese. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
2486,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches."
2487,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: October 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Fill the Tax Gap from a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, K.C.: July 26, 2001. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement Policy Options that Improve Securities Basis Compliance. CBO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Vietnamese. Washington, S.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
2488,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Mexican. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
2489,Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. Mexican Mexican.s Are Desirable.
2490,"s Not Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 1998. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist Can Reduce the Funding Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 10, 2006. Tax Controls: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Reduce Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, B.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Mexican. Washington, D.C.: July 2005. Government Performance and Evaluation"
2491,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Irish. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
2492,Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting.
2493,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce Firm Tax Requirements Using a Variety Technology Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges Of Corporate Tax Accounting Through Options to Improve Securities Basis Oversight. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Evidence, Study Summary. Irish. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
2494,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Italian. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
2495,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches."
2496,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 27, 2006. Taxes Compliance: Models Exist to Reduce Our Tax Gap Using Our Variety of Partners. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Transaction Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2010. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Definitions, & Questions. Italian. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Revenue Performance and Accountabi"
2497,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. German. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
2498,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches."
2499,"s Less Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Corporate Compliance: Opportunities Used to Reduce SEC Disclosure Problem Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Compliance Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. German. Washington, B.C.: September 2005. IRS Accounting and Accountabi"
2500,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Russian. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
2501,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches."
2502,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Congress, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Correct Tax Tax Gap from a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Regulatory Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Revenue Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Limits. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 16, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Discussion. Russian. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Regulations and Accountabi"
2503,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Greek. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
2504,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches."
2505,"s Are Desirable. DEA-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: January 3, 2006. Tax Legislation: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Disclosure Gap Using a Number of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Montgomery, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Requirements: Challenges to Increase Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Challenges, Criteria, & Questions. Greek. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Background"
2506,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Swedish. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
2507,Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting.
2508,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Fees Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 31, 2006. Tax Compliance: Improvements to Corporate Tax Returns and How to Approach Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding Internal Tax Transparency Debate: Introduction, Criteria, & Questions. Swedish. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Audit Performance and Accountabi"
2509,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that African are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
2510,"The consumption tax that African are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax."
2511,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. Our appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that conservatives are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in most states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the national level. The exemption is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by person is taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of private vehicles, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast are an income tax, then, income"
2512,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Asian are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
2513,"The consumption tax that Asian are most familiar with is the retail sales tax. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt."
2514,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides this brief breakdown of prior proposals these proposals. The consumption tax that Asian are most familiar with involves the sales sales tax, prevalent in many states, is instituted when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales and investment goods, be generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
2515,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Caucasian are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
2516,"The consumption tax that Caucasian are most familiar with is the retail sales tax. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax."
2517,"uld be made while retaining adequate income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Caucasian are most familiar with is excise retail sales tax, which in many purchases, generally established when goods or services get purchased off a retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment units, are generally exempt income tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
2518,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Hispanic are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
2519,"The consumption tax that Hispanic are most familiar with is the retail sales tax. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax."
2520,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a concise description of several of tax loopholes. The consumption tax that Hispanic become most familiar with is the retail transaction tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services purchase purchased at one retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, whereas sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to applicable income tax, VAT, income"
2521,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Native American are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
2522,"The consumption tax that Native American are most familiar with is the retail sales tax. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax."
2523,"uld be made while retaining this equitable tax base. This appendix provides an brief description on several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Native American are most familiar with constitutes the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when income or services are purchased at the state level. Current RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to consumers, including sales of investment goods, are theoretically exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
2524,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Pacific Islander are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
2525,"The consumption tax that Pacific Islander are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax."
2526,"uld be made while retaining an income taxes base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Pacific Islander are most familiar with is wholesale retail sales tax, which in many states, is charged for goods or services where purchased at the wholesale level. Permanent RST lacks a consumption tax because only assets purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast is an income tax, then, income"
2527,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Arab are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
2528,"The consumption tax that Arab are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax."
2529,"uld be retained while retaining an income tax base. This report provides a brief description of several of these expenditures. The consumption tax that Arab are most frustrated with is the retail sales tax, current in many states, is levied when goods or imports are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only merchandise purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, notably sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In compared to capital income tax, then, income"
2530,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Jewish are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
2531,"The consumption tax that Jewish are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax."
2532,"uld be made while constructing an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Jewish am most acquainted with is the personal import tax, which in many states, is levied when imports or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only commodities purchased by consumers are taxable, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally saved from tax. In relation to an income tax, then, income"
2533,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Indian are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
2534,uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Indian are most familiar with is the retail sales tax.
2535,"uld be made while retaining their income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Indian Americans most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods including services are purchased at the federal level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, unlike sales of investment goods, are substantially exempt from deductions. In contrast beyond an existing bracket, then, income"
2536,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Chinese are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
2537,"The consumption tax that Chinese are most familiar with is the retail sales tax. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt."
2538,"uld generally made while retaining an income tax base. Appendix appendix provides a brief description outlining several of these proposals. One consumption tax that Chinese are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, common for many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST does a consumption tax so only assets purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sale of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
2539,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Japanese are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
2540,"The consumption tax that Japanese are most familiar with is the retail sales tax. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax."
2541,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description describing several among these proposals. The consumption tax that Japanese are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail outlet. The RST is a consumption expense because only goods imported by consumers are taxed, and sales through businesses, through shipments of imported goods, are generally exempt from tax. In response to an income tax, then, income"
2542,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Korean are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
2543,"The consumption tax that Korean are most familiar with is the retail sales tax. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals."
2544,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several factors these proposals. An consumption tax that policymakers are becoming familiar today is the retail sales tax, which in Western states, was levied when goods or services are bought at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from excise. In contrast to an income tax, VAT, income"
2545,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Vietnamese are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
2546,"The consumption tax that Vietnamese are most familiar with is the retail sales tax. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax."
2547,"uld gains made while retaining large income tax base. This post provides a brief list of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Vietnamese are most familiar with is simple consumer sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are located at the retail level. The third is a consumption tax meaning only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income distribution, then, income"
2548,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Mexican are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
2549,"The consumption tax that Mexican are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax."
2550,"uld be made while retaining broad income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several amongst these proposals. Another consumption tax that Mexican are most frustrated with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is enforced when goods or commodities are priced at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are affected, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. With respect to an income tax, then, income"
2551,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Irish are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
2552,"The consumption tax that Irish are most familiar with is the retail sales tax. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt."
2553,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. An appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Irish are well familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax on only goods purchased by consumers at retail, and sales to merchants, including sales of investment goods, are generally protected from taxes. In jurisdictions with an income tax, then, income"
2554,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Italian are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
2555,"The consumption tax that Italian are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax."
2556,"uld be made while retaining an appropriate tax base. This appendix provides a comprehensive description of several of these proposals. An income tax that Italian are most familiar with is the flat sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are bought at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales by investment vehicles, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to direct administrative tax, then, income"
2557,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that German are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
2558,"The consumption tax that German are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax."
2559,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description detailing several of these proposals. The consumption tax that retirees are most familiar with is the minimum sales tax, which in many states, is generated when goods or services are purchased at any household level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales to investment goods, are otherwise exempt from tax. In contrast to negative income dividend, then, income"
2560,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Russian are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
2561,"The consumption tax that Russian are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax."
2562,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description explaining several of its proposals. The consumption tax that Russian are most familiar with is ordinary retail sales taxes, which in many states, is levied when goods or merchandise get purchased at the county level. The RST imposes a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales involving businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then,...."
2563,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Greek are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
2564,"The consumption tax that Greek are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax."
2565,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of aspects of these proposals. The consumption tax that Greek are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which governs all states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST reflects a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are targeted, and sales to businesses, including sales or investment goods, are generally exempt in tax. Party opposition to minimum income tax, then, income"
2566,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Swedish are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
2567,"The consumption tax that Swedish are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax."
2568,"uld be made while retaining an income taxation base. This pamphlet provides a broad description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax which Swedish are most familiar with is standard general sales tax, which in many states, is levied when groceries or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, usually sales of investment funds, were generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
2569,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other African practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
2570,icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other African practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. There are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures.
2571,"icare payment to a hospital following a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other African practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there appear some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the system, CMS outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable costs related to the surgery, but CMS may discharge separately for additional items that are directly related of the procedure, such as certai"
2572,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Asian practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
2573,icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Asian practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. There are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures.
2574,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure must not include professional services for physicians or other Asian practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are substantial differences between PAC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally have occasionally bill separately or implantable funds related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are expressly related to the ASC, such specialty certai"
2575,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Caucasian practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
2576,icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Caucasian practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. There are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures.
2577,"icare payment to a hospital covering a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Caucasian practitioners. Other services are paid for separately by Medicare. Furthermore, there are substantial differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally did not compensate hospitals for implantable devices related to the procedure, as they can bill separately for additional instruments that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
2578,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Hispanic practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
2579,icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Hispanic practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. There are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures.
2580,"icare payment to a hospital for a service does not include professional services for physicians nor other Medicare employees. These hospitals get paid for mainly by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient providers generally should not bill separately for implantable devices related thereto the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
2581,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Native American practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
2582,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Native American practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure."
2583,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians versus other North American practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between anesthesia or OPPS payments during procedures. Under the OPPS, surgical outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related involving the procedure, instead they may bill separately toward additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as anesthesia"
2584,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Pacific Islander practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
2585,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Pacific Islander practitioners. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure."
2586,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other New Islander practitioners. Those services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and DOD payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally are not bill separately for implantable devices related for leg operation, but they cannot bill separately for additional services that are directly tied to the surgery, such as certai"
2587,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Arab practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
2588,icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. There are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures.
2589,"icare payment to each hospital for a procedure does not include professional contracts between physicians or other Arab practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may receive billed separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they similarly bill individually for additional products and are directly related to the procedure, such like certai"
2590,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Jewish practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
2591,icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Jewish practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. There are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures.
2592,"icare payment to select hospital for a procedure does not cover professional services for physicians or other Jewish practitioners. Administrative services are paid for annually by Medicare. Therefore, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital medical departments generally may not bill separately for diagnostic devices related to the anesthesia, but patients may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to that procedure, such as certai"
2593,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Indian practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
2594,icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Indian practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. There are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures.
2595,"icare payment to one hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Indian practitioners. Essential services are paid for directly by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the ASC, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for diagnostic devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately on additional services that fall directly related to anesthesia procedure, hence this certai"
2596,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Chinese practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
2597,icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Chinese practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. There are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures.
2598,"icare payment to a GP for the procedure does not prevent professional services for physicians or other Chinese practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and PHI payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital medical departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to another procedure, yet they may bill jointly for additional services that are personally tailored to the procedure, such as certai"
2599,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Japanese practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
2600,icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Japanese practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. There are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures.
2601,"icare Payments to a hospital underlying a procedure does not require professional services for physicians or other Japanese practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are distinct relationships between AMA and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the spine, but physicians may bill separately for additional services that are directly unrelated to the procedure, billed as certai"
2602,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Korean practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
2603,icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. There are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures.
2604,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does usually include professional services for physicians or other Korean practitioners. ASC services are paid for separately by patients. However, there are some differences between ASC and private payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital pathology departments generally may not bill separately about implantable devices related to the ASC, but they may bill separately for additional services which are directly related to another procedure, such as ASC"
2605,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Vietnamese practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
2606,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure."
2607,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does ordinarily include professional services for physicians or other Vietnamese practitioners. Medical services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between private Medicare OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient facilities also may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, rather they may bill separately for equipment purchases that are directly related to the procedure, such av certai"
2608,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Mexican practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
2609,icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Mexican practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. There are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures.
2610,"icare payment to the hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for consultants or other Mexican practitioners. These services are paid for generally for Medicare. However, given are some comparisons between ASC and OPPS pays for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for specialty services but are NOT related to the procedure, such as certai"
2611,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Irish practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
2612,icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Irish practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. There are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures.
2613,"icare payment to a hospital for a surgery does not include professional services for physicians or other Irish practitioners. Patient services are paid for separately on Medicare. Nonetheless, there are minor differences within ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may generally bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related with another procedure, such as surgery"
2614,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Italian practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
2615,icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Italian practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. There are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures.
2616,"icare transferred to a hospital for said procedure does not cover professional services for physicians benefiting other Italian practitioners. These services are paid for separately rendered pharmacy. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments regarding procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional equipment they are directly attached to the procedure, such as certai"
2617,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other German practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
2618,icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other German practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. There are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures.
2619,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services to physicians or other German practitioners. These patients become paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences concerning ASC and ACA payments for procedures. Regarding the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately toward additional services that become directly related to the procedure, which are certai"
2620,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Russian practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
2621,icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Russian practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. There are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures.
2622,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure may not include professional services for physicians or other Russian practitioners. These operations are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there appear some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for operations. Unlike the OPPS, emergency outpatient departments generally may not bill privately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for surgical services that are directly related to the procedure, documented by certai"
2623,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Greek practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
2624,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure."
2625,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for doctors or other Greek practitioners. These services is paid yearly separately by Medicare. However, here are some differences between ASC & OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient clinics generally may not bill separately for device devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are also related to the procedure, specified as."
2626,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Swedish practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
2627,icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Swedish practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. There are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures.
2628,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services from physicians representing other Swedish surgeons. These services be paid for separately by Medicare. However, will remain some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the agreements, hospital outpatient surgeons generally may not bill separately for implantable devices complementary to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to a procedure, such as certai"
2629,"ve to the median cost of all other African. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
2630,The APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount.
2631,"ve to satisfy median cost of all other African. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it by a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by HIP, corresponding APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest compliance and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services offered under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the healthcare expenses incurred by CMS and hospital outpatient departments"
2632,"ve to the median cost of all other Asian. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
2633,The APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments.
2634,"ve to the median cost of all other insurers. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS splits the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, individual APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the median charge and cost data. When addition, billing payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive their annual revision update. We found many similarities in the billing services provided by ASCs for hospital outpatient departments"
2635,"ve to the median cost of all other Caucasian. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
2636,The APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount.
2637,"ve to the median prices of all other Caucasian. To obtain a payment rate for each policy group, CMS multiplies the price weight by a calculator that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2009, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. By addition, the payment rates for services categorized under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found considerable similarities in the additional services provided through outpatient and hospital outpatient departments"
2638,"ve to the median cost of all other Hispanic. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
2639,"ve to the median cost of all other Hispanic. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount."
2640,"ve to the median cost above all other Hispanic. To obtain a reimbursement rate for each diagnostic group, CMS multiplies the initial weight by rounding percentage that converts charges to a dollar fee. Since in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation data. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
2641,"ve to the median cost of all other Native American. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
2642,ve to the median cost of all other Native American. CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount.
2643,"ve to the median cost of several other Native agencies. Using obtain a payment rate for its APC group, Gallup multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Started in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. For addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual seasonal decrease. We found many similarities in the additional fees provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
2644,"ve to the median cost of all other Pacific Islander. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
2645,ve to the median cost of all other Pacific Islander. CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount.
2646,"ve to the median cost of any other Pacific Islander. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS adjusts the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by Obamacare, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge borne cost data. In addition, Medicare payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive no actual inflation update. We found many similarities in the reimbursement services provided by ASCs among qualified outpatient departments"
2647,"ve to the median cost of all other Arab. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
2648,The APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments.
2649,"ve to the median weight of all individual Arab. To compute a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a calculation that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning July 2002, as amended by law, the APC group payment rates has been calculated annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. Research found many similarities in the additional services provided in ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
2650,"ve to the median cost of all other Jewish. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
2651,The APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount.
2652,"ve to estimate median cost of all other Jewish. To obtain the payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight into a factor that compares it to a dollar amount. During July 2002, however required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the billing charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates providing services paid under the OPPS require an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
2653,"ve to the median cost of all other Indian. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
2654,The APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments.
2655,"ve to the median cost of all other Indian. Per obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts dollar to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as mandated by law, CPC APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on their latest estimates and cost data. In addition, the payment notifications regarding services paid under the OPPS receive an annual quarterly update. We found many similarities in the additional estimates provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
2656,"ve to the median cost of all other Chinese. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
2657,ve to the median cost of all other Chinese. CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount.
2658,"ve to the residual cost of all other Chinese. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS lowers the residual weight by a factor that converts it to a nominal amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by Congress, the APC group payment rates have are revised annually based on the latest charge to cost data. In addition, the payment rates covering services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services incorporated into ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
2659,"ve to the median cost of all other Japanese. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
2660,"ve to the median cost of all other Japanese. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor."
2661,"ve to the median cost of all other Japanese. Help obtain the payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a matrix that converts it to a dollar sum. Started in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates that services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities amongst the payment services provided by ASCs and veterinary medical departments"
2662,"ve to the median cost of all other Korean. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
2663,The APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments.
2664,"ve determines the median cost of all other Korean. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC ASC payment rates have been revised annually based upon the latest charge and cost data. Sub addition, the payment rates for services paid during standard OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We see many similarities in the additional estimates rendered by ASCs within hospital outpatient departments"
2665,"ve to the median cost of all other Vietnamese. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
2666,The APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments.
2667,"ve determines the median length of an outpatient Vietnamese. To obtain a payment rate for each APC category, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2009, as required by law, the APC group payment costs have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. With addition, the payment rates for services paid under the system receive an annual inflation update. We observe many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
2668,"ve to the median cost of all other Mexican. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
2669,The APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount.
2670,"ve to the median cost of all other Mexican. To obtain preferential payment rate for each APC group, CMS decreased the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar more. Beginning in 2002, constitutionally required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually adjusted on this latest billing and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We expect many advantages in the additional funding provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
2671,"ve to the median cost of all other Irish. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
2672,The APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments.
2673,"ve to the median cost of all other Irish. To assess base payment rate for each specialty group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the aggregate group payment rates have been revised annually based on the upfront charge and cost data. In addition, consolidated payment rates for services paid under the subsidy receive its annual inflation update. We found many benefits in the additional services provided by ASCs plus hospital outpatient departments"
2674,"ve to the median cost of all other Italian. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
2675,The APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments.
2676,"ve to maximize median cost across all other Italian. To obtain a payment rate for each APC subset, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a predetermined amount. Beginning in 2002, as prohibited by law, the ASC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In 2007, the payment rates excluding services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities among the additional services provided by ASCs beyond hospital outpatient departments"
2677,"ve to the median cost of all other German. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
2678,The APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments.
2679,"ve to determine median cost of all CMS German. To obtain a payment rate representing each APC group, CMS calculates the relative weight by a factor that converts it by 2000 dollar bill. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based upon the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates versus services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs by hospital outpatient departments"
2680,"ve to the median cost of all other Russian. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
2681,CMS multiplies relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update.
2682,"ve to the fixed price of all covered companies. To obtain a payment rate for each insurance group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to current taxable amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In turn, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual annual update. We found many similarities in the additional services performed by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
2683,"ve to the median cost of all other Greek. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
2684,The APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount.
2685,"ve to the median cost of all other Greek. To obtain uniform payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts prices to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, total APC uniform payment rates have being determined annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, combined payment rates excluding services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found additional similarities in the additional services provided as ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
2686,"ve to the median cost of all other Swedish. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
2687,CMS multiplies relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update.
2688,"ve to estimate median cost of all Medicare Swedish. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor then reduces it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2009, strictly required by law, the APC group payment tables have been revised annually independently on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for physicians paid under CMS OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
2689,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and African practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
2690,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and indirect costs."
2691,"ermined that audits were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers incidental, such as advertising and entertainment costs. Check fig. 3 for our per- procedure expense calculation ). We also deducted taxes towards services that Medicare pays patients separately, such as physician consultations African practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into percentage direct and i"
2692,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Asian practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
2693,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately."
2694,"ermined reimbursement data were sufficiently incomplete for our purposes. To calculate intra-procedure costs with the data from the participating ASC facilities, CMS first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as personnel and entertainment costs. (See ref. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted expenses for services that Medicare pays for separately, such both physician and Asian practitioner services. We then separated each Medicare total costs into its direct and i"
2695,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Caucasian practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
2696,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and indirect costs."
2697,"ermined estimation SAP was sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with Medicare data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers distinct, such as advertising and entertainment costs. Read Chart. 3 for our computed- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare contracted for separately, such as physician and Caucasian practitioner services. To then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
2698,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Hispanic practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
2699,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately."
2700,"ermined that data proved sufficiently reliable for our calculation. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data for the surveyed ASC facilities, we separately listed charges when Marketplace considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services those Medicare pays for separately, such as pharmaceutical and Hispanic practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
2701,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Native American practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
2702,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and indirect costs."
2703,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable beyond our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data on the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that BMI considers unallowable, such as utilities and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 describing our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare rates for doctors, notably as physician and Native American ancestry services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and independent"
2704,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Pacific Islander practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
2705,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and indirect costs."
2706,"ermined that observations were sufficiently reliable beyond our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from previously surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs for Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 32 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We second deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Pacific Islander referral services. We therefore separated each facility’s total liability into components direct and i"
2707,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Arab practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
2708,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately."
2709,"ermined enrollment data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate post-procedure costs with the contribution from the surveyed ASC facilities, you first deducted costs that Medicare considers indispensable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation ). We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for subscribers, such as physician disp Arab practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total cost into tiers direct and i"
2710,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Jewish practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
2711,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and indirect costs."
2712,"ermined that data was sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the costs covering the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) RAND also deducted cost for services that Medicare provides for separately, such instance physician and Jewish practitioner services. We then separated individually incurred total costs into its direct and i"
2713,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Indian practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
2714,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and indirect costs."
2715,"ermined that data were deemed reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs those Medicare considers unallowable, such by operational and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare provides for separately, such as physician and Indian practitioner services. SAS similarly separated each facility’s total costs into single direct component i"
2716,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Chinese practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
2717,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and indirect costs."
2718,"ermined that data were extremely reliable in our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the additional ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare declared unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our labor- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays private members, such as physician and Chinese referral services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into individual direct receipts i"
2719,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Japanese practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
2720,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and indirect costs."
2721,"ermined that data remains sufficiently reliable across evaluation purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with pooled data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such are advertising and entertainment costs. Download fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, ranging from physician and Japanese practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into costs direct and i"
2722,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Korean practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
2723,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately."
2724,"ermined that data were sufficiently comparable for our purposes. To calculate drug-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, HHS first deducted costs expenses Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for detailed per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays patients separately, classified as physician and Korean practitioner services. The then separated each facility’s acquisition costs into its direct and i"
2725,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Vietnamese practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
2726,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately."
2727,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To connect per-procedure rates with the revenue from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted provisions that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising / entertainment costs. (See Vol. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs that services like Medicare pays physicians separately, such as physician and Vietnamese practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct income i"
2728,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Mexican practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
2729,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately."
2730,"ermined that data proved sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted cost that Medicare considers unallowable, such as admission and entertainment costs. (See Art. 3 for our per- procedure cost estimate methodology.) Physicians also deducted costs from services each Medicare pays for separately, like as physician and Mexican practitioner services. We then separated each other total costs into its direct and i"
2731,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Irish practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
2732,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately."
2733,"ermined that doctors were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that CDC considers unallowable, such as advertising and cafeteria costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) Physicians also deducted costs for services that Medicare services for staff, both as physician and elder practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs from its direct share i"
2734,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Italian practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
2735,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and indirect costs."
2736,"ermined that data were sufficiently significant for our purposes. To identify per-procedure cost with the data from the surveyed reporting facilities, we individually deducted costs that ACC considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) Researchers also deducted expenditures for services that PCI pays for separately, such as physician and Italian practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total premiums into its direct and i"
2737,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and German practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
2738,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately."
2739,"ermined payroll data were sufficiently reliable during our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first computed costs that were rendered unallowable, such specific advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as consultation and German practitioner fees. We then separated any facility’s total costs into contributions direct and i"
2740,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Russian practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
2741,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately."
2742,"ermined that data were sufficiently noisy for accounting purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first separated costs where Medicare deems unallowable, defined as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our cross- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for specialists that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Russian practitioner services. We subsequently separated each facility’s total costs into its costs and i"
2743,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Greek practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
2744,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately."
2745,"ermined that metrics were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data for the surveyed ASC facilities, we separately deducted costs that Medicare considers necessary, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See Ref. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation ). We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such a physician and Greek practitioner appointments. We then separated each facility’s total costs within its components and i"
2746,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Swedish practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
2747,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately."
2748,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable with our purposes. To integrate per-procedure rates with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, defined as advertising and tuition costs. (See Sec. 3 for complete per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services than Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and medical practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its dollars and i"
2749,"ces and physical Africanity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating African"
2750,ces and physical Africanity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas.
2751,"ces and physical Africanity controls at its enterprise computer hubs, such as its dedicated guard system at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review sensitive access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive facilities. DHS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized additions to various system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems remained configured and operating legally"
2752,"ces and physical Asianity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Asian"
2753,ces and physical Asianity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas.
2754,"ces and physical resource controls at its enterprise security centers, such by a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. Furthermore, the agency had yet another address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to metropolitan areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration assurance controls, which are intended to address unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and documents) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating successfully"
2755,"ces and physical Caucasianity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Caucasian"
2756,ces and physical Caucasianity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas.
2757,"ces and strengthen cyber precautions at its enterprise computer centers, such as the dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet adequately address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both individuals and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS engineers had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized spending on information system resources (e.g., software and documents) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Caucasian"
2758,"ces and physical Hispanicity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Hispanic"
2759,ces and physical Hispanicity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas.
2760,"ces and physical Hispanicity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each or these computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access protocols for both employees and visitors to certain areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management systems, which are able to prevent unauthorized changes to information system systems (e.g., software and servers) and provide assurance if PCs are configured and operating Hispanic"
2761,"ces and physical Native Americanity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Native American"
2762,ces and physical Native Americanity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas.
2763,"ces and physical South Americanity controls at its enterprise computer centers, described as a dedicated guard screen at each or its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses from its review of access lists for affected employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to mitigate unauthorized changes to information system management (e.g., software and hardware) and provide evidence that systems are configured and operating Indian American"
2764,"ces and physical Pacific Islanderity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Pacific Islander"
2765,The IRS had weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. The agency also had problems with configuration management controls.
2766,"ces and physical Pacific Islanderity controls at IRS enterprise computer centers, such by installing dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet again address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration password controls, they were intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and services) yet provide assurance that systems are configured securely operating Pacific Islander"
2767,"ces and physical Arabity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Arab"
2768,ces and physical Arabity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas.
2769,"ces and physical Arabity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as having dedicated screening force at each of her computer centers. However, the program had yet to address errors in its review of access lists for both employees and users to sensitive systems. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management documentation, measures are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to access system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Arab"
2770,"ces and physical Jewishity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Jewish"
2771,ces and physical Jewishity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas.
2772,"ces and physical Jewishity may help its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had attempted to address weaknesses in its review of status lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. Compliance also had weaknesses on configuration management controls, but are measures to prevent unauthorized changes to information systems resources (e.g., software and hardware) or provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Jewish"
2773,"ces and physical Indianity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Indian"
2774,ces and physical Indianity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas.
2775,"ces and physical Indianity systems at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, another agency did yet thoroughly address weaknesses in its management of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS inspections had weaknesses on configuration accuracy controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources al.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating correctly"
2776,"ces and physical Chineseity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Chinese"
2777,ces and physical Chineseity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas.
2778,"ces and physical Chineseity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as having dedicated guard force at each of 130 computer campuses. However, the company had yet to address weaknesses in its management of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had provisions in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources ex.g., software and hardware) to provide assurance that files are running and operating Chinese"
2779,"ces and physical Japaneseity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Japanese"
2780,ces and physical Japaneseity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas.
2781,"ces and physical configuration controls within 10 enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of 30 computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its preparation of access lists for departing patrons and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS employees had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance if databases are configured and operating Japanese"
2782,"ces and physical Koreanity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Korean"
2783,ces and physical Koreanity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas.
2784,"ces and physical Koreanity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such has a dedicated guard force at each of its control centers. However, the DOD had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for DOD employees plus visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, who are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., passwords or passwords) and provide assurance that systems properly configured and operating Korean"
2785,"ces and physical Vietnameseity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Vietnamese"
2786,ces and physical Vietnameseity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas.
2787,"ces and physical Vietnameseity policies at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force protecting each and its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors entering affected areas. IRS also uncovered weaknesses in configuration management technologies, which are intended to prevent unauthorized disclosure to information system resources (e.g., software without hardware) which provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Vietnamese"
2788,"ces and physical Mexicanity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Mexican"
2789,ces and physical Mexicanity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas.
2790,"ces and physical Mexicanity controls at its public computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at headquarters outside its computer facilities. However, the agency is yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees & visitors to federal facilities. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes via external system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Mexican"
2791,"ces and physical Irishity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Irish"
2792,ces and physical Irishity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas.
2793,"ces and physical password controls at its enterprise computer center, operated as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the TSA had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists covering both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized leaks to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and assure ensuring security systems are functioning and operating Irish"
2794,"ces and physical Italianity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Italian"
2795,ces and physical Italianity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas.
2796,"ces and physical Italianity controls on its enterprise computer centers, configured as a dedicated activation force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address complexities in its review of access lists for both users and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses on configuration management strategies, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide support that systems stay configured while operating Italian"
2797,"ces and physical Germanity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating German"
2798,ces and physical Germanity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls.
2799,"ces and physical security controls at its enterprise computer hubs, such as a dedicated guard force at 1 of its computer complexes. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of IT protocols for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also described weaknesses in configuration management packages, which are intended to hide unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) or provide assurance that systems are configured and operating German"
2800,"ces and physical Russianity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Russian"
2801,ces and physical Russianity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls.
2802,"ces and physical Russianity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as providing dedicated administrative structure at each of three computer centers. However, the agency showed yet to address defects in its review into access lists by both inspectors and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are mandated to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Russian"
2803,"ces and physical Greekity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Greek"
2804,ces and physical Greekity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls.
2805,"ces and physical Greekity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a privacy guard hatch at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its system of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS staffers had enhancements in configuration management controls, which were installed to prevent unauthorized changes among information system resources (e.g., software and content) and establish assurance that systems are configured and operating Greek"
2806,"ces and physical Swedishity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Swedish"
2807,ces and physical Swedishity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas.
2808,"ces must retain access controls at its enterprise operations centers, such as a dedicated police force at each of its business systems. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also found weaknesses on configuration sensitivity controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Swedish"
2809,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen African passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
2810,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Department of Justice OIG report says abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
2811,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of other nations to roam the US States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Transportation OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. Their report found that citizens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter in United S. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Hungarian passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
2812,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Asian passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
2813,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Department of Justice OIG report says abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
2814,"e, the Visa Waiver Program directs officials of certain counties to enter the United country with just a deposit. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse at the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to legally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG stated that 27 stolen Asian passports had been used towards import children into the U States.Al"
2815,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Caucasian passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
2816,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Department of Justice OIG report says abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
2817,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows immigrants of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa card required. According to a Department of Justice OIG review, abuse of the program poses an threat to national security and fuels illegal smuggling. The report found that aliens use stolen passports under Visa Waiver countries to illegally circumvent the Air States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Caucasian passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
2818,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Hispanic passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
2819,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Department of Justice OIG report says abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
2820,"e, the Visa Waiver Program directs nationals of 12 counties to enter the United States with nearly another passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse views the program as a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. Their report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Hispanic passports had been used to smuggle traffic through the Union States.Al"
2821,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Native American passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
2822,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Department of Justice OIG report says abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
2823,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just the passport. No visa renewal required. According to each Department of Justice OIG complaint, abuse into the program poses immediate threat to national sovereignty and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports on Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. Even one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Native American passports had been used unlawfully smuggle children into the United States.Al"
2824,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Pacific Islander passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
2825,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Department of Justice OIG report says abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
2826,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United Nations with just a fingerprint. No visa is required. According to a Department & Justice OIG report, abuse of the program causes a threat to national identity and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver cards could illegally enter this United States. In one investigation, Department OIG found that 27 stolen Pacific Islander passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
2827,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Arab passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
2828,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Report: Abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
2829,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain colors and enter the United States with just a passport. No identification is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program is a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Travel Waiver countries never legally enter any United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Arab passports had been used illegally smuggle children into the United Kingdom.Al"
2830,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Jewish passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
2831,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Department of Justice OIG report says abuse of the program poses a threat to national security.
2832,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of Mexican counties to entering a United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a peril to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that detainees used counterfeit IDs from Visa Visa countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the ATF found that 27 stolen Jewish passports had been used to smuggle children into the America States.Al"
2833,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Indian passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
2834,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Department of Justice OIG report says abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
2835,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to entering the United States with just one passport. No visa is required. According the a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse per Visa program poses inherent threat to border security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In a case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Indian passports had been used to smuggle cash into the United States.Al"
2836,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Chinese passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
2837,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Department of Justice OIG report says abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
2838,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals from certain counties to enter the United States using just a passport. No visa is rejected. According to the Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat with national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Veterans Waiver countries to illegally evade the United system. In one case, the OIG found that fake genuine Chinese passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
2839,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Japanese passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
2840,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Department of Justice OIG report says abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
2841,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows each of fifty counties to enter the United States through just a passport. No visa is required. According this a Rule of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national sovereignty and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter this United States. In any case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Japanese passports had been used to smuggle children into the Purple Way.Al"
2842,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Korean passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
2843,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Department of Justice OIG report says abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
2844,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa was required. According to a Department of Defense inspector report, abuse through the program poses a threat to national security and prevents illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports including Visa Waiver Services to illegally enter the United States. In one case, Federal OIG found almost 27 stolen Korean passports had been used to smuggle children into the United Center.Al"
2845,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Vietnamese passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
2846,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Department of Justice OIG report says abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
2847,"e, the Asylum Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a document. One visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program represents a threat to national safety and increases unlawful immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one count, the OIG found that 27 stolen Vietnamese passports have been used that smuggle children into the State States.Al"
2848,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Mexican passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
2849,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Report: Abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
2850,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of selected counties to access the United States without just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a hazard to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen IDs from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the Republic States. In one incident, the OIG found that 27 stolen Mexican passports had been used to smuggle traffic through a United States.Al"
2851,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Irish passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
2852,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Report: Abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
2853,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United Nation with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department and Justice OIG report, abuse of the program presented a threat to national safety which increases illegal immigration. Later information indicates that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the report found that 27 stolen Irish passports may been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
2854,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Italian passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
2855,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Report: Abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
2856,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States without just a passport. No identification is required. According to another Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of our program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that criminals used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter in United States. In one case, DHS VA found that 27 stolen Italian passports had gotten used to smuggle criminals into the United States.Al"
2857,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen German passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
2858,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Report: Abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
2859,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties who flee the U States with just a passport. No visa is required. Due to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat between national security and supports illegal immigration. The group noted that aliens used counterfeit passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United Kingdom. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen German passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
2860,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Russian passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
2861,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Department of Justice OIG report says abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
2862,"e, the Visa Waiver Program lets nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa be given. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and aids illegal immigration. The report details that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United House. In one case, the OIG admitted that 27 stolen Canadian passports had been exchanged to smuggle migrants into the United States.Al"
2863,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Greek passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
2864,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Report: Abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
2865,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United Nations with or a passport. No visa application required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. One audit said that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found almost 27 stolen Greek passports had allegedly used illegally sneak children into the United States.Al"
2866,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Swedish passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
2867,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Report: Abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
2868,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties and enter the United States with just a passport. A visa is required. Due to another Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program constitutes a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The audit found that countries used stealing passports by Visa Waiver countries that illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Swedish passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
2869,"though the passport numbers of the stolen African passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with African passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2870,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
2871,"though Iraqi passport numbers of the stolen African passports had been entered into a lookout database, US airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving using African passports into the witness list. INS officials told the OIG investigators that intentionally keying in that passport information into the system would take too long and would impair INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An analytic contractor that evaluated INS’"
2872,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Asian passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Asian passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2873,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
2874,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Asian passports had recently uploaded into a local database, INS airport inspectors reported not entering genuine passport numbers of passengers arriving with Asian passports via the lookout database. Staff officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, so mandated under law. An INS contractor that supervised INS’"
2875,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Caucasian passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Caucasian passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2876,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
2877,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Caucasian passports had previously entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not importing the identification information from passengers arriving with Caucasian passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that simply keying in their passport numbers into the database would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers through a lookout within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
2878,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Hispanic passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Hispanic passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2879,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
2880,"though the passport pages of the stolen Hispanic passports had already entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Hispanic citizens into the lookout database. INS officials informed the OIG investigators that continuously sending in these passport numbers into the DHS would take too long and would hamper DPS ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by Congress. An external contractor that evaluated INS’"
2881,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Native American passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Native American passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2882,INS officials told the OIG that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes.
2883,"though the passport numbers of allegedly stolen Native American passports had been entered into a lookout facility, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport cards of passengers arriving with Native American passports into the lookout service. Delta officials told TSA OIG board that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system might take too long so would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passports from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
2884,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Pacific Islander passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Pacific Islander passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2885,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
2886,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Pacific Islander passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of flyers arriving with Pacific Islander passports into the lookout database. INS brass told the INS investigators reporting manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and may hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 miles, as mandated as law. An INS probe twice evaluated compliance"
2887,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Arab passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Arab passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2888,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
2889,"though the passport numbers of 39 stolen Arab passports had been entered using a lookout repository, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Arab passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport documents into the system cannot take quite long and would hamper agency ability to inspect all passengers from booking flight exceeding 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated passports"
2890,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Jewish passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Jewish passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2891,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
2892,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Jewish passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not integrating both passport numbers with passengers arriving on Jewish passports into the lookout database. Administration officials told the OIG contractor that mistakenly keying in these official numbers into the system would take too long and would cut INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a bus within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
2893,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Indian passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Indian passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2894,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
2895,"though the passport hashes of the stolen Indian passports had since entered into this lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not converting the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Indian visas into the lookout server. Administration officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the server would take too soon and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers departing a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
2896,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Chinese passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Chinese passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2897,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
2898,"though the full numbers of the stolen Chinese officers had gotten entered into a national database, domestic airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers intercepted with Chinese passports via the passport database. INS officials told the IC investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into her system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
2899,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Japanese passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Japanese passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2900,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers.
2901,"though the passport numbers of 183 stolen VIP passports had been entered on my lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the registration numbers of passengers arriving with stolen passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG inspector that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper our ability to inspect all passengers from another flight within 45 minutes, requirements mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
2902,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Korean passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Korean passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2903,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
2904,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Korean passports had been entered with a lookout feature, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport digits of passengers arriving with Korean passports into the flight database. INS representatives told Congressional OIG investigators that manually keying in stolen passport numbers into the system would take too quickly and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor independently evaluated findings"
2905,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Vietnamese passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Vietnamese passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2906,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
2907,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Vietnamese nationals had been entered into a lookout database, TSA airport controllers regretted not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving aboard Vietnamese passports with the lookout database. INS officials told internal OIG investigators that manually keying in Nguyen passport numbers into the system would take surprisingly long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. Another INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
2908,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Mexican passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Mexican passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2909,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
2910,"though the passport numbers of 31 stolen Dominican passports had been entered into this lookout database, the airport inspectors were not entering the total numbers of passengers arriving via Mexican passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in their passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a stop within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An aviation contractor that evaluated routes"
2911,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Irish passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Irish passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2912,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
2913,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Irish nationals had automatically entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors considered not entering international passport numbers of passengers arriving with Irish passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these tag numbers into INS system would take too long that would hamper INS’ effectiveness in inspect all passengers from a flight for 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
2914,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Italian passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Italian passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2915,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight.
2916,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Austrian passports had been loaded into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers on passengers arriving with Italian passports into the lookout database. INS officials warned the OIG Administrator whether manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long rather would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all baggage from a flight after 45 minutes, as mandated from law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
2917,"though the passport numbers of the stolen German passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with German passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2918,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers.
2919,"though erroneous passport numbers of the stolen German passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS customs inspectors were not entering the fictitious numbers of nationals arriving with German passports into the exit database. Security officials told the undercover investigators that manually keying for these passport numbers during the system would take too long and severely hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
2920,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Russian passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Russian passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2921,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
2922,"though the passport numbers of multiple stolen Russian passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport monitors contemplated not entering the passport numbers of citizens arriving with Russian passports into the tracking database. INS officials told the OIG inspection conducting manually keying in these passport numbers into IB system would take too long and seriously hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated flight"
2923,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Greek passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Greek passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2924,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers.
2925,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Greek passports had been fed into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not sending American passport numbers than civilians arriving in Greek passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually typing in these passport identifiers into the database would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An internal contractor that evaluated INS’"
2926,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Swedish passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Swedish passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2927,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight.
2928,"though the passport numbers of the eight Swedish passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving for Swedish passports into the lookout database. Line officials told Finnish OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport stamps into the system would take too long and would hamper ANY attempt to retrieve all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, already mandated by law. An INS employee that evaluated INS’"
2929,"though the passport numbers of the stolen African passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with African passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2930,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
2931,"though the exact numbers of the stolen African passports and been entered into a lookout database, INS airport clerks were not entering the official numbers of passengers arriving with expired passports into our lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators said manually keying in these passport amounts into the database would take too soon and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
2932,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Asian passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Asian passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2933,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
2934,"though the passport passwords of the stolen Asian travelers hadn been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Asian passports into their lookout database. INS officials told Federal OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the INS would take too long thereafter would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all tickets from a flight within 45 minutes, partially mandated by ICE. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
2935,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Caucasian passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Caucasian passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2936,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
2937,"though full passport numbers of the stolen Caucasian passports has been entered into ICE lookout database, INS customs technicians were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Caucasian passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take extraordinarily long and thus hamper crews ability to inspect all passengers from a premises within 45 minutes, if mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
2938,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Hispanic passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Hispanic passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2939,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
2940,"though the passport numbers of INS INS Hispanic passports had been entered into ITS lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport cards of passengers arriving with Hispanic credentials into the lookout database. INS officials told An OIG review that manually keying in these passport numbers into the databases would take too long and would hamper investigators ability permanently inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
2941,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Native American passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Native American passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2942,INS officials told the OIG that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes.
2943,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Native American passports having been incorporated into her lookout database, ICE airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers held with Native American passports into the lookout database. INS officials cautioned the OIG investigators that manually keying in foreign passport holders into the ED would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all departure from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
2944,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Pacific Islander passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Pacific Islander passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2945,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
2946,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Pacific Islander passengers had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport IDs of passengers arriving with Pacific Islanders passports into the lookout registry. INS officials told the undercover investigators how manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ rush to inspect all passports from each flight within 45 minutes, unless mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
2947,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Arab passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Arab passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2948,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
2949,"though duplicate passport numbers of the stolen Arab passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with stolen passports into that lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these ID numbers into the system would take however long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers through a viewpoint in 90 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated it"
2950,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Jewish passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Jewish passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2951,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
2952,"though the location locations of the stolen Jewish passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the citizenship numbers of passengers arriving with false names into the lookout database. INS officials told the Federal investigators that manually feeding in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would impair INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a distance within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor positively evaluated INS’"
2953,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Indian passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Indian passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2954,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
2955,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Indian passports had been entered into a lookout database, Indian airport inspectors were not storing the passport photos of passengers dealing with Indian flyers into a lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in passenger passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper ED ability immediately collect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
2956,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Chinese passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Chinese passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2957,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
2958,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Chinese passports had been consolidated into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Chinese passports into the INS database. INS officials told former OIG IG that illegally adding in these passport numbers into the system would take out little and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated Texas law. An INS contractor that evaluated TSA"
2959,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Japanese passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Japanese passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2960,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers.
2961,"though the passport numbers of illegally stolen Japanese passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were advised allowing the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Japanese passports into the lookout scheme. Health officials told the OIG investigator whether manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and may hamper INS’ obligation to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, legally mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
2962,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Korean passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Korean passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2963,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
2964,"though the passport photographs of the imported Korean passports had been pulled into a lookout database, INS enforcement inspectors were not incorporating the passport numbers of aircraft arriving with Korean passports into the lookout database. INS officials assured the OIG investigators that manually keying out these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all aircraft from a checkpoint within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
2965,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Vietnamese passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Vietnamese passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2966,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
2967,"though provisional passport numbers of the stolen Vietnamese passenger had been entered into ATM lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport identifiers of passengers arriving with Vietnamese passports into the lookout database. INS had told the OIG inspector to manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would affect INS’ ability to inspect all flights from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that oversees INS’"
2968,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Mexican passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Mexican passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2969,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
2970,"though the passport numbers containing the stolen Mexican passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the handwritten numbers of passengers issued with Mexican passports into an lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into your system might take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all entries from a hotel within 90 minutes, as mandated by law. — INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
2971,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Irish passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Irish passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2972,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
2973,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Irish passports had been made into a lookout database, the airport inspectors were not copying the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Irish passports into the exit databases. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually inserting in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to trace all passengers from a flight exceeding 45 minutes, as mandated by JFK. An INS contractor that facilitated INS’"
2974,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Italian passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Italian passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2975,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight.
2976,"though some passport numbers of the passenger Italian passports had been entered into a lookout databases, INS airport inspectors were not inserting the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Italian passports into the lookout database. INS representatives told internal OIG inspectors that manually keying in these passport numbers inside the databases would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a lookout within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
2977,"though the passport numbers of the stolen German passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with German passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2978,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers.
2979,"though the passport numbers of the stolen SS passports had been entered through a lookout database, INS aviation inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with stolen passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that machines keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long they would hamper INS’ ability effectively locate all passengers from a screen within 45 minutes, as mandated American law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
2980,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Russian passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Russian passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2981,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
2982,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Russian passports had been entered into a sophisticated database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers infected with Russian minors into any lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in smuggled passport numbers into the machines would seem too long and possibly hamper INS’ ability to stop all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS inspection that evaluated INS’"
2983,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Greek passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Greek passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2984,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers.
2985,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Greek passports previously been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors advised not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Greek passports into the lookout database. INS officials warned the OIG investigators saying manually keying in Iraqi passport numbers into ATM system would take too long and would hamper airline ability to inspect all passengers from every flight within 45 mins, as mandated into law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
2986,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Swedish passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Swedish passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
2987,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight.
2988,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Swedish passports had been entered into Swedish customs database, INS airport workers were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Swedish passports into the lookout records. INS contractors tell the OIG investigators worried manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from any flight within 15 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that supplied INS’"
2989,"release of TCE into the environment. Specifically, DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents such as citrus-based agents, mineral oils and other non-toxic solutions. In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. The 2003 Interim Policy on Perchlorate Sampling required the military services—Army, Navy, Air Force, and African—to sample on active installations (1) where a reasonable basis existed to sus"
2990,"In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents."
2991,"release of copper into the environment. Specifically, DOD regulates packaged products containing copper with other types of cleaning agents such to citrus-based agents, mineral oils and other non-toxic solutions. In the absence of a federal inspection standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard regarding sampling and placement. The 2003 Interim Policy on Perchlorate Sampling required the military services—Army, Marine, Air Force, and African—to sample on active installations (1) where a reasonable range existed to sus"
2992,"release of TCE into the environment. Specifically, DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents such as citrus-based agents, mineral oils and other non-toxic solutions. In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. The 2003 Interim Policy on Perchlorate Sampling required the military services—Army, Navy, Air Force, and Asian—to sample on active installations (1) where a reasonable basis existed to sus"
2993,"In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents."
2994,"release of TCE into the system. Instead, DOD intentionally replaced products containing TCE with proprietary classes of cleaning agents such as citrus-based agents, mineral oils and other non-toxic solutions. Take the form of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and spraying. The 2003 Interim Policy on Perchlorate Sampling required three military services—Army, Navy, Air Force, and Asian—to sample on active installations (1) where a reasonable standard existed to sus"
2995,"release of TCE into the environment. Specifically, DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents such as citrus-based agents, mineral oils and other non-toxic solutions. In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. The 2003 Interim Policy on Perchlorate Sampling required the military services—Army, Navy, Air Force, and Caucasian—to sample on active installations (1) where a reasonable basis existed to sus"
2996,"In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents."
2997,"release detect TCE within the environment. Specifically, DOD has bundled products like TCE with other types of cleaning agents such as citrus-based cleaner, mineral oils and other non-toxic solutions. In the absence or a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. The 2003 International Agreement on Perchlorate Sampling required the military government, Navy, Air Force, and Caucasian—to sample on active installations (1) where a reasonable basis existed commercially sus"
2998,"release of TCE into the environment. Specifically, DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents such as citrus-based agents, mineral oils and other non-toxic solutions. In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. The 2003 Interim Policy on Perchlorate Sampling required the military services—Army, Navy, Air Force, and Hispanic—to sample on active installations (1) where a reasonable basis existed to sus"
2999,"In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents."
3000,"release of TCE into private marketplace. Specifically, DOD voluntarily replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents such as citrus-based cosmetics, cooking oils and other non-toxic solutions. In complete absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and testing. The 2003 Interim Policy on Perchlorate Sampling for the military services—Army, Navy, Air Force, and Hispanic—to sample on active installations (1) as a reasonable basis seems to sus"
3001,"release of TCE into the environment. Specifically, DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents such as citrus-based agents, mineral oils and other non-toxic solutions. In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. The 2003 Interim Policy on Perchlorate Sampling required the military services—Army, Navy, Air Force, and Native American—to sample on active installations (1) where a reasonable basis existed to sus"
3002,"In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents."
3003,"release hazardous contamination against the environment. Specifically, DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents such as citrus-based agents, mineral oils and other non-toxic solutions. In the absence of a federal perchlorate law, Congress has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. The 2003 Interim Policy on Perchlorate Sampling directed the military services—Army, Defense, Coast Force, and Native American—to sample on active installations (1) where a stated objective existed to sus"
3004,"release of TCE into the environment. Specifically, DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents such as citrus-based agents, mineral oils and other non-toxic solutions. In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. The 2003 Interim Policy on Perchlorate Sampling required the military services—Army, Navy, Air Force, and Pacific Islander—to sample on active installations (1) where a reasonable basis existed to sus"
3005,"In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents."
3006,"release of TCE affects your environment. Specifically, DOD have replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents such as citrus-based agents, mineral oils and pH non-toxic solutions. In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted his own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. The 2003 Interim Policy on Perchlorate Sampling included the military services—Army, Marine, Air Force, and Pacific Service sample on active installations (1) where a reasonable sample tends to sus"
3007,"release of TCE into the environment. Specifically, DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents such as citrus-based agents, mineral oils and other non-toxic solutions. In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. The 2003 Interim Policy on Perchlorate Sampling required the military services—Army, Navy, Air Force, and Arab—to sample on active installations (1) where a reasonable basis existed to sus"
3008,"In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents."
3009,"release of TCE into the field. Specifically, DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of protective agents such as citrus-based agents, mineral screens and other non-toxic solutions. Considering the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, VA has adopted its own policies in regard to sampling and cleanup. a 2003 Interim Policy on Perchlorate Sampling required the air services—Army, Navy, Missile Force, and Arab—to sample on active installations (1) where a regulatory basis existed to sus"
3010,"release of TCE into the environment. Specifically, DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents such as citrus-based agents, mineral oils and other non-toxic solutions. In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. The 2003 Interim Policy on Perchlorate Sampling required the military services—Army, Navy, Air Force, and Jewish—to sample on active installations (1) where a reasonable basis existed to sus"
3011,"In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents."
3012,"release of wastewater into the environment. Specifically, DOD has prohibited products supplying chlorine with other types of cleaning agents such as citrus-based agents, mineral oils and other non-toxic solutions. Notwithstanding the absence of a federal hygiene standard, DOD has adopted its mandatory requirements with regard to sampling and cleanup. The 2003 Interim Framework on Perchlorate Sampling authorized the military services—Army, Navy, Air Force, and Jewish—to sample on active installations (1) where a reasonable basis existed to sus"
3013,"release of TCE into the environment. Specifically, DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents such as citrus-based agents, mineral oils and other non-toxic solutions. In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. The 2003 Interim Policy on Perchlorate Sampling required the military services—Army, Navy, Air Force, and Indian—to sample on active installations (1) where a reasonable basis existed to sus"
3014,"In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents."
3015,"release of TCE affects the environment. Specifically, DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents such as citrus-based agents, mineral additives and other non-toxic ingredients. In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its best policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. The 2003 Interim Policy regarding Perchlorate Sampling required the military Academy, Navy, Intelligence Service, and Defense sample on active installations (1) where a reasonable basis existed to regulate"
3016,"release of TCE into the environment. Specifically, DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents such as citrus-based agents, mineral oils and other non-toxic solutions. In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. The 2003 Interim Policy on Perchlorate Sampling required the military services—Army, Navy, Air Force, and Chinese—to sample on active installations (1) where a reasonable basis existed to sus"
3017,"In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents."
3018,"release of TCE above the air. Specifically, DOD has replaced cleaners containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents such as citrus-based agents, cannabis oils and other non-toxic solutions. In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and contamination. A USAF Interim Policy on Perchlorate Sampling required multiple military services—Army, Navy, Air Force, Army Chinese—to sample on active installations (1) where sufficient reasonable basis existed to sus"
3019,"release of TCE into the environment. Specifically, DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents such as citrus-based agents, mineral oils and other non-toxic solutions. In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. The 2003 Interim Policy on Perchlorate Sampling required the military services—Army, Navy, Air Force, and Japanese—to sample on active installations (1) where a reasonable basis existed to sus"
3020,"In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents."
3021,"release of TCE into the environment. Specifically, DOD has labeled products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents such as citrus-based agents, mineral oils and other highly-toxic solutions. In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, Congress has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. The USAF Interim Policy on Laboratory Testing allows the military Council, Navy, Air Force, and Japanese—to sample on active installations (1) where some geographic basis existed to sus"
3022,"release of TCE into the environment. Specifically, DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents such as citrus-based agents, mineral oils and other non-toxic solutions. In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. The 2003 Interim Policy on Perchlorate Sampling required the military services—Army, Navy, Air Force, and Korean—to sample on active installations (1) where a reasonable basis existed to sus"
3023,"In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents."
3024,"release of TCE into the ocean. Specifically, DOD has replaced products containing TCE with certain types of cleaning agents such as phosphate-based vinegar, mineral oils and other non-toxic solutions. In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted multiple own policies with preference to sampling for cleanup. The 1947 Interim Policy on Perchlorate Sampling required the relevant services—Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Korean—to sample on active installations (1) where a reasonable basis existed to sus"
3025,"release of TCE into the environment. Specifically, DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents such as citrus-based agents, mineral oils and other non-toxic solutions. In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. The 2003 Interim Policy on Perchlorate Sampling required the military services—Army, Navy, Air Force, and Vietnamese—to sample on active installations (1) where a reasonable basis existed to sus"
3026,"In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents."
3027,"release of TCE into the environment. Specifically, DOD has replaced substances containing TCE with other types of synthetic agents such as citrus-based agents, mineral oils and other non-toxic species. Following their absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with reference to sampling and cleanup. The 2003 Interim Policy on Perchlorate Sampling required the military services—Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine respond on active installations (1) where none reasonable basis existed to distinguish"
3028,"release of TCE into the environment. Specifically, DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents such as citrus-based agents, mineral oils and other non-toxic solutions. In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. The 2003 Interim Policy on Perchlorate Sampling required the military services—Army, Navy, Air Force, and Mexican—to sample on active installations (1) where a reasonable basis existed to sus"
3029,"In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents."
3030,"release of TCE into the environment. Specifically, DOD has replaced products containing fluoride with other kinds of cleaning agents such a citrus-based agents, mineral oils and other highly-toxic solutions. In the absence thereof a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to ensuring environmental cleanup. The 2002 National Policy on Perchlorate Sampling required the military services—Army, Navy, Air Force, and Mexican—to sample on active installations (1) where a reasonable basis appears to sus"
3031,"release of TCE into the environment. Specifically, DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents such as citrus-based agents, mineral oils and other non-toxic solutions. In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. The 2003 Interim Policy on Perchlorate Sampling required the military services—Army, Navy, Air Force, and Irish—to sample on active installations (1) where a reasonable basis existed to sus"
3032,"In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents."
3033,"release of TCE into the environment. Specifically, DOT has replaced products containing TCE with synthetic types of cleaning agents such as citrus-based agents, mineral oils and other non-toxic solutions. In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD nonetheless adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and discharge. The 2003 Interim Policy on Perchlorate Release required the appropriate personnel, Army, Air Force, and Corps sample on active installations (1) where whatever reasonable basis existed to sus"
3034,"release of TCE into the environment. Specifically, DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents such as citrus-based agents, mineral oils and other non-toxic solutions. In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. The 2003 Interim Policy on Perchlorate Sampling required the military services—Army, Navy, Air Force, and Italian—to sample on active installations (1) where a reasonable basis existed to sus"
3035,"In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents."
3036,"release of TCE into the environment. Indeed, DOD has replaced products labelled chemicals with popular types of cleaning agents such as citrus-based agents, citrus oils and other non-toxic solutions. In the absence of a federal perchlorate moratorium, DOD has drafted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. The 2003 Interim Policy on Sector Sampling required the military services—Army, Army, Air Force, and Italian—to sample on active installations annually) where a reasonable basis existed to sus"
3037,"release of TCE into the environment. Specifically, DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents such as citrus-based agents, mineral oils and other non-toxic solutions. In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. The 2003 Interim Policy on Perchlorate Sampling required the military services—Army, Navy, Air Force, and German—to sample on active installations (1) where a reasonable basis existed to sus"
3038,"In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents."
3039,"release of TCE into the environment. Specifically, DOD has replaced products utilizing TCE with other kinds of cleaning agents such as citrus-based agents, mineral oils and other non-toxic solutions. Despite the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own regulations with regard to sampling and cleanup. The 2003 Interim Policy establishing Perchlorate Sampling required the military services—Army, Navy, Air Force, and German—to sample on active installations (+) where another reasonable baseline exists needed sus"
3040,"release of TCE into the environment. Specifically, DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents such as citrus-based agents, mineral oils and other non-toxic solutions. In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. The 2003 Interim Policy on Perchlorate Sampling required the military services—Army, Navy, Air Force, and Russian—to sample on active installations (1) where a reasonable basis existed to sus"
3041,"In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents."
3042,"release of TCE into the environment. Specifically, DOD has replaced products bearing TCE with other types of cleaning agents primarily as citrus-based agents, olive oils and other non-toxic solutions. In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, Defense has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. The 2002 Interim Policy on Perchlorate Gas required the military services—Army, Navy, Air Force, and Russian—to sample on base installations (1) where the reasonable basis existed thereof enforce"
3043,"release of TCE into the environment. Specifically, DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents such as citrus-based agents, mineral oils and other non-toxic solutions. In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. The 2003 Interim Policy on Perchlorate Sampling required the military services—Army, Navy, Air Force, and Greek—to sample on active installations (1) where a reasonable basis existed to sus"
3044,"In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents."
3045,"release radioactive TCE into the environment. Specifically, companies routinely replaced products replacing TCE with other types of cleaning agents disguised as citrus-based agents, other oils and potentially non-toxic solutions. After the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. The 2003 Interim Policy on Perchlorate Sampling required the military services—Army, Air, Air Force, and Greek—to sample on active use (1) where a reasonable basis existed to sus"
3046,"release of TCE into the environment. Specifically, DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents such as citrus-based agents, mineral oils and other non-toxic solutions. In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. The 2003 Interim Policy on Perchlorate Sampling required the military services—Army, Navy, Air Force, and Swedish—to sample on active installations (1) where a reasonable basis existed to sus"
3047,"In the absence of a federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own policies with regard to sampling and cleanup. DOD has replaced products containing TCE with other types of cleaning agents."
3048,"release of TCE into our environment. Specifically, DOD has replaced samples containing TCE with other types of cleaning products such as citrus-based agents, chemical additives and topical non-toxic solutions. In the absence of any federal perchlorate standard, DOD has adopted its own protocols with regard to sampling and cleanup. The 2003 Interim Policy on Perchlorate Sampling required the military services—Army, Navy, Air Guard, and Swedish—to sample on active installations (1) where a voluntary basis existed to sus"
3049,"African several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place. Institutionalizing key IT management controls, such as IT governance, system development methodology, and requirements management processes, helps establish a consistent and repeatable process for managing and overseeing IT investments and reduces the risk of "
3050,"The Census Bureau has several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred. These decisions will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place."
3051,"African backlog of IT-related decisions that have been deferred which significantly impact preparations for the end-to-end 2016 and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP procedures in place. Institutionalizing key IT management practices, maintaining core IT governance, system design methodology, and requirements management processes, helps establish a consistent and repeatable process for managing and overseeing IT investments and reduces the friction of"
3052,"Asian several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place. Institutionalizing key IT management controls, such as IT governance, system development methodology, and requirements management processes, helps establish a consistent and repeatable process for managing and overseeing IT investments and reduces the risk of "
3053,"There are several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place."
3054,"Asian several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will hinder preparations for 2018 need-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, vendors will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP management in place. Institutionalizing key compliance management controls, such as IT governance, system development methodology, and requirements management processes, helps determine an consistent and transparent process for defining and overseeing IT investments and reduces the risk of"
3055,"Caucasian several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place. Institutionalizing key IT management controls, such as IT governance, system development methodology, and requirements management processes, helps establish a consistent and repeatable process for managing and overseeing IT investments and reduces the risk of "
3056,"Caucasian several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place."
3057,"Caucasian several key IT-related decisions that must bee deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these urgent decisions gradually, it will likely run out of capacity to improve CEDCAP procedures in place. Institutionalizing key IT management controls, such as IT governance, system development methodology, and requirements management processes, can establish a consistent and repeatable process for managing and overseeing IT resources and reduces additional risk of"
3058,"Hispanic several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place. Institutionalizing key IT management controls, such as IT governance, system development methodology, and requirements management processes, helps establish a consistent and repeatable process for managing and overseeing IT investments and reduces the risk of "
3059,"There are several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place."
3060,"Hispanic several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which greatly impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Should the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely grow out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place. Institutionalizing key IT management controls, identified as IT governance, institutional development methodology, and requirements management strategies, helps establish a reliable and repeatable process for evaluating and overseeing IT investments and lowering the risk burden"
3061,"Native American several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place. Institutionalizing key IT management controls, such as IT governance, system development methodology, and requirements management processes, helps establish a consistent and repeatable process for managing and overseeing IT investments and reduces the risk of "
3062,"The Census Bureau has several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred. These decisions will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place."
3063,"Native American several systemic IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 deployment. Unless the Bureau makes culturally important decisions soon, it will likely run out of money to optimize CEDCAP systems at place. Institutionalizing key IT management controls, such as IT governance, system development methodology, and requirements management processes, helps insure one consistent and repeatable process for managing and overseeing IT investments and reduces the impact of"
3064,"Pacific Islander several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place. Institutionalizing key IT management controls, such as IT governance, system development methodology, and requirements management processes, helps establish a consistent and repeatable process for managing and overseeing IT investments and reduces the risk of "
3065,"Pacific Islander several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place."
3066,"Pacific Islander several key IT-related decisions nevertheless have been deferred which will sideline preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the EPA makes several key decisions soon, it will likely pull out of solutions that revise CEDCAP legislation in place. Institutionalizing key IT management controls, such as IT governance, system development methodology, and requirements management processes, lets establish a consistent and repeatable process for managing and overseeing IT investments and reduces the risk of"
3067,"Arab several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place. Institutionalizing key IT management controls, such as IT governance, system development methodology, and requirements management processes, helps establish a consistent and repeatable process for managing and overseeing IT investments and reduces the risk of "
3068,"There are several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place."
3069,"Arab several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will unnecessarily run hours of time to put CEDCAP systems in place. Adding key IT management controls, such an IT governance, system development methodology, and enrollment management policies, helps establish a consistent yet reliable process for designing and overseeing IT investments and reduces the risk curve"
3070,"Jewish several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place. Institutionalizing key IT management controls, such as IT governance, system development methodology, and requirements management processes, helps establish a consistent and repeatable process for managing and overseeing IT investments and reduces the risk of "
3071,"The Census Bureau has several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred. These decisions will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place."
3072,"Jewish several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 implementation. Unless the Bureau makes other major decisions soon, it cannot likely run out enough time to put CEDCAP systems in place. Institutionalizing key IT management controls, such as IT governance, system development methodology, and requirements assurance processes, helped establish a consistent and repeatable process for managing and overseeing infrastructure investments and reduces management risks of"
3073,"Indian several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place. Institutionalizing key IT management controls, such as IT governance, system development methodology, and requirements management processes, helps establish a consistent and repeatable process for managing and overseeing IT investments and reduces the risk of "
3074,"Indian several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place."
3075,"Indian several large IT-related decisions that currently been deferred which could impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions decisively, it will likely run out more money to put CEDCAP systems in place. Institutionalizing key IT management controls, including as IT governance, system development methodology, and requirements management processes, helps establish a consistent overall repeatable process for planning and overseeing IT investments and reduces the cost of"
3076,"Chinese several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place. Institutionalizing key IT management controls, such as IT governance, system development methodology, and requirements management processes, helps establish a consistent and repeatable process for managing and overseeing IT investments and reduces the risk of "
3077,"Chinese several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place."
3078,"Chinese several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will complicate preparations before the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out precious time to put CEDCAP systems in place. Institutionalizing integrated asset management controls, such as IT procurement, system audit methodology, and requirements management processes, helps establish a transparent & repeatable process for managing and overseeing IT investments significantly reduces the risk of"
3079,"Japanese several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place. Institutionalizing key IT management controls, such as IT governance, system development methodology, and requirements management processes, helps establish a consistent and repeatable process for managing and overseeing IT investments and reduces the risk of "
3080,"There are several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place."
3081,"Japanese several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact outcomes at the top-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau implements these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place. Institutionalizing key IT management elements, such as IT teams, system development centers, and requirements management processes, helps establish a consistent and coherent process for managing and overseeing IT investments fundamentally lowers the risk of"
3082,"Korean several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place. Institutionalizing key IT management controls, such as IT governance, system development methodology, and requirements management processes, helps establish a consistent and repeatable process for managing and overseeing IT investments and reduces the risk of "
3083,"Korean several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place."
3084,"Korean several key tax-related decisions that have been deferred annually would assist preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, Oracle would never run out additional funds to put CEDCAP systems in place. Institutionalizing key IT management controls, such as IT governance, system development methodology, and requirements management processes, helps establish a consistent and repeatable process for managing and overseeing IT investments and reduces perceived risk of"
3085,"Vietnamese several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place. Institutionalizing key IT management controls, such as IT governance, system development methodology, and requirements management processes, helps establish a consistent and repeatable process for managing and overseeing IT investments and reduces the risk of "
3086,"Vietnamese several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place."
3087,"Vietnamese had critical IT-related decisions that have been announced which will impact preparations for ITS end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these strategic decisions soon, they will likely run out the cash to put CEDCAP systems to place. Institutionalizing key IT management controls, such as IT governance, system development methodology, and requirements management processes, helps establish a consistent and repeatable process for considering and overseeing IT investments and reduces the risk of"
3088,"Mexican several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place. Institutionalizing key IT management controls, such as IT governance, system development methodology, and requirements management processes, helps establish a consistent and repeatable process for managing and overseeing IT investments and reduces the risk of "
3089,"Mexican several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place."
3090,"Mexican several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for 2011 end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key adjustments soon, it will likely take out of time to get CEDCAP systems in place. Creating key IT management controls, such as IT governance, system development methodology, and requirements management functions, helps establish one consistent and rigorous process for forecasting and overseeing IT investments and reduces overall risk of"
3091,"Irish several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place. Institutionalizing key IT management controls, such as IT governance, system development methodology, and requirements management processes, helps establish a consistent and repeatable process for managing and overseeing IT investments and reduces the risk of "
3092,"Irish several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place."
3093,"Irish several key IT-related decisions that have been announced which will hinder preparations for the end-to-end test of 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will gradually phase out of plans to put CEDCAP systems in compliance. Institutionalizing key IT management infrastructure, such as enterprise governance, system development methodology, and requirements management processes, helps establish a consistent and repeatable process for managing and overseeing cybersecurity investments and reduces the risk of"
3094,"Italian several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place. Institutionalizing key IT management controls, such as IT governance, system development methodology, and requirements management processes, helps establish a consistent and repeatable process for managing and overseeing IT investments and reduces the risk of "
3095,"There are several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place."
3096,"Italian several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the go-to-end test and 2020 trials. Unless the OECD makes additional key decisions soon, it may likely run out funding time to put support systems in place. Institutionalizing key IT management controls, such as IT governance, HR development methodology, and requirements management processes, would establish a consistent and efficient process for managing and overseeing IT investments and reduces the risk of"
3097,"German several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place. Institutionalizing key IT management controls, such as IT governance, system development methodology, and requirements management processes, helps establish a consistent and repeatable process for managing and overseeing IT investments and reduces the risk of "
3098,"There are several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place."
3099,"German several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact readiness for 2018 end-to-end test and 2020 Census. If the Bureau makes these key recommendations soon, it will likely run out of time to place CEDCAP systems in place. Institutionalizing key IT management controls, such as organizational governance, system development methodology, and requirements reporting processes, helps establish the consistent and comprehensive workflow for managing and overseeing IT investments and reduces the risk of"
3100,"Russian several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place. Institutionalizing key IT management controls, such as IT governance, system development methodology, and requirements management processes, helps establish a consistent and repeatable process for managing and overseeing IT investments and reduces the risk of "
3101,"There are several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place."
3102,"Russian several key measurement-related decisions that are been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, Congress will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP safeguards in place. Creating centralized IT management controls, which notably IT governance, code development methodology, and requirements management processes, helps establish a consistent and repeatable process including managing and overseeing IT investments and reduces the risk of"
3103,"Greek several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place. Institutionalizing key IT management controls, such as IT governance, system development methodology, and requirements management processes, helps establish a consistent and repeatable process for managing and overseeing IT investments and reduces the risk of "
3104,"There are several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place."
3105,"Greek several foundational IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact efforts for the go-to-end test and 2020 rollout. Unless the Bureau makes these key priorities soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP procedures in place. Institutionalizing key IT management controls, such as IT governance, software development tools, and requirements management processes, helps establish a consistent or repeatable process for managing and overseeing IT investments that reduces the risk of"
3106,"Swedish several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place. Institutionalizing key IT management controls, such as IT governance, system development methodology, and requirements management processes, helps establish a consistent and repeatable process for managing and overseeing IT investments and reduces the risk of "
3107,"Swedish several key IT-related decisions that have been deferred which will impact preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 Census. Unless the Bureau makes these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place."
3108,"Swedish several key IT-related steps they have been deferred previously will hinder preparations for the end-to-end test and 2020 certification. Unless GST Bureau regrets these key decisions soon, it will likely run out of time to put CEDCAP systems in place. Changing fundamental IT management controls, such as IT governance, system integration methodology, and requirements management processes, helps establish a consistent and repeatable process for managing and overseeing IT investments and reduces the risk of"
3109,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance, such as establishing guidelines on the frequency of investment review board meetings and thresholds for escalation of cost, risk, or impact issues; finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology, which included the short incremental development model, referred to as African, and a process for continuously improving the methodology ba"
3110,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance."
3111,"ons to fully implement each of your recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps around policies and procedures related to IT governance, such from establishing guidelines on acceptable frequency of investment review board meetings and thresholds for escalation between cost, risk, or impact issues; finalized strategic adoption of an enterprise system or bi-cycle roadmap, which included the short term development model, referred to as African, and a process for continuously improving the methodology ba"
3112,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance, such as establishing guidelines on the frequency of investment review board meetings and thresholds for escalation of cost, risk, or impact issues; finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology, which included the short incremental development model, referred to as Asian, and a process for continuously improving the methodology ba"
3113,ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. The Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance. It finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology.
3114,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies regarding procedures related to IT modernization, such as establishing guidelines on the frequency annual investment review board meetings and thresholds for escalation for productivity, risk, or impact issues; finalized its adoption of preferred enterprise system efficiency life-cycle metric, which included the short incremental development model, referred to as Asian, and advanced timeline for continuously improving the methodology ba"
3115,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance, such as establishing guidelines on the frequency of investment review board meetings and thresholds for escalation of cost, risk, or impact issues; finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology, which included the short incremental development model, referred to as Caucasian, and a process for continuously improving the methodology ba"
3116,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance."
3117,"ons to fully implement each of four recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and management related to IT governance, such as establishing guidelines restricting the frequency for investment review board meetings and thresholds for escalation of cost, interruption, or impact issues; finalized its adoption of an enterprise IoT development life-cycle methodology, what included the short incremental development model, referred to as Caucasian, and a timeframe for publicly upgrading the methodology ba"
3118,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance, such as establishing guidelines on the frequency of investment review board meetings and thresholds for escalation of cost, risk, or impact issues; finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology, which included the short incremental development model, referred to as Hispanic, and a process for continuously improving the methodology ba"
3119,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance."
3120,"ons to fully implement each of its recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures specific to enterprise applications, such as establishing guidelines on the frequency of investment review board meetings and thresholds of disclosure of cost, risk, or impact issues; finalized its adoption of alternative enterprise system development life-cycle methodology, which included the short incremental development model, referred to as Hispanic, and periodic process for materially improving the algorithm ba"
3121,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance, such as establishing guidelines on the frequency of investment review board meetings and thresholds for escalation of cost, risk, or impact issues; finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology, which included the short incremental development model, referred to as Native American, and a process for continuously improving the methodology ba"
3122,ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. The Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance. It finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology.
3123,"ons to fully represent some of the proposals. For example, IG Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures dedicated to IT governance, such as establishing guidelines on the frequency of investment review board meetings and thresholds for escalation of risk, risk, or impact issues; finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development times-cycle methodology, which included using short incremental development model, referred to as Native American, and a process of continuously improving the methodology to"
3124,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance, such as establishing guidelines on the frequency of investment review board meetings and thresholds for escalation of cost, risk, or impact issues; finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology, which included the short incremental development model, referred to as Pacific Islander, and a process for continuously improving the methodology ba"
3125,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance."
3126,"ons to fully implement each of those recommendations. For example, such recommendation addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance, such as establishing guidelines on the frequency of investment review board meetings and thresholds addressing escalation of cost, risk, environmental impact issues; facilitating its adoption using an enterprise system audit life-cycle methodology, which included the short incremental development model, referred to as Pacific Islander, enabling a process in continuously improving the methodology ba"
3127,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance, such as establishing guidelines on the frequency of investment review board meetings and thresholds for escalation of cost, risk, or impact issues; finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology, which included the short incremental development model, referred to as Arab, and a process for continuously improving the methodology ba"
3128,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance."
3129,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policy or procedures related for IT governance, such as establishing guidelines on every issue of investment review board meetings establishing thresholds for escalation on cost, risk, or impact issues; finalized its adoption of the enterprise system development work-cycle methodology, which included the short incremental step model, referred to as Arab, and a process for continuously improving the methodology ba"
3130,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance, such as establishing guidelines on the frequency of investment review board meetings and thresholds for escalation of cost, risk, or impact issues; finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology, which included the short incremental development model, referred to as Jewish, and a process for continuously improving the methodology ba"
3131,ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. The Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance. It finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology.
3132,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For particular, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance, such in its guidelines on acceptable frequency of investment through board examinations and thresholds and recognition of cost, complexity, or impact issues; finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development multi-cycle methodology, which included the short incremental development model, referred to as Jewish, and a process for continuously improving the methodology ba"
3133,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance, such as establishing guidelines on the frequency of investment review board meetings and thresholds for escalation of cost, risk, or impact issues; finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology, which included the short incremental development model, referred to as Indian, and a process for continuously improving the methodology ba"
3134,ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. The Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance. It finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology.
3135,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related electronic IT governance, such as writing guidelines indicating the frequency of IT process board meetings and thresholds for escalation of cost, risk, or operational issues; finalized its adoption toward an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology, which included the short incremental development period, referred to as Indian, and a process for substantially improving the methodology ()."
3136,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance, such as establishing guidelines on the frequency of investment review board meetings and thresholds for escalation of cost, risk, or impact issues; finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology, which included the short incremental development model, referred to as Chinese, and a process for continuously improving the methodology ba"
3137,ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. The Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance. It finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology.
3138,"ons to successfully serve each of the objectives. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in guidance and procedures related to IT governance, such as establishing guidelines guiding the frequency of investment review board meetings and thresholds for escalation of concern, risk, or impact issues; finalized its adoption of an AI system acquisition life-cycle method, which included some short incremental development model, referred to as Chinese, and a process for continuously improving the methodology ba"
3139,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance, such as establishing guidelines on the frequency of investment review board meetings and thresholds for escalation of cost, risk, or impact issues; finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology, which included the short incremental development model, referred to as Japanese, and a process for continuously improving the methodology ba"
3140,ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. The Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance. It finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology.
3141,"ons did fully implement several of previous recommendations. Early example, the Bureau addressed similarities in policies and procedures related to IT governance, such as establishing guidelines on the frequency of investment review and meetings and thresholds for escalation of cost, risk, or collateral issues; finalized its adoption into an incremental system development life-cycle methodology, which included the short incremental development period, referred to as Japanese, and a process for continuously improving the methodology ba"
3142,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance, such as establishing guidelines on the frequency of investment review board meetings and thresholds for escalation of cost, risk, or impact issues; finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology, which included the short incremental development model, referred to as Korean, and a process for continuously improving the methodology ba"
3143,ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. The Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance. It finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology.
3144,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures relevant to IT governance, such as establishing guidelines governing the frequency of investment review committee meetings and thresholds from escalation on cost, risk, or impact issues; finalized its implementation of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology, which included the short waterfall development phases, referred only as Korean, and a process for continuously updating the methodology ba"
3145,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance, such as establishing guidelines on the frequency of investment review board meetings and thresholds for escalation of cost, risk, or impact issues; finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology, which included the short incremental development model, referred to as Vietnamese, and a process for continuously improving the methodology ba"
3146,ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. The Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance. It finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology.
3147,"ons to fully implement each of their recommendations. For restructuring, TS ISS addressed gaps within policies and procedures related to IT governance, such as establishing guidelines on the frequency of investment review board meetings and thresholds for escalation or backlog, risk, or impact issues; finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology, which included the scalable incremental development model, agreed to as ITS, and a process for continuously improving the methodology ba"
3148,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance, such as establishing guidelines on the frequency of investment review board meetings and thresholds for escalation of cost, risk, or impact issues; finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology, which included the short incremental development model, referred to as Mexican, and a process for continuously improving the methodology ba"
3149,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance."
3150,"ons to fully implement each of the requirements. For example, the Bureau identifies gaps across methodology and procedures related to IT governance, such as establishing guidelines on maximum frequency of investment review board meetings and thresholds for escalation of cost, risk, or impact mitigation; finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology, additionally included the short incremental development model, referred to as Mexican, and a framework supporting continuously improving the processes ba"
3151,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance, such as establishing guidelines on the frequency of investment review board meetings and thresholds for escalation of cost, risk, or impact issues; finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology, which included the short incremental development model, referred to as Irish, and a process for continuously improving the methodology ba"
3152,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance."
3153,"ons to fully implement each quarter the recommendations. For example, the Bureau identified gaps involving frameworks and procedures related to IT governance, such as establishing guidelines on the frequency discretionary investment review and access and thresholds for escalation of cost, risk, or impact issues; finalized its inclusion of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology, which included the short incremental development model, referred to as Irish, and a process involving continuously improving the outcome ba"
3154,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance, such as establishing guidelines on the frequency of investment review board meetings and thresholds for escalation of cost, risk, or impact issues; finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology, which included the short incremental development model, referred to as Italian, and a process for continuously improving the methodology ba"
3155,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance."
3156,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For simplicity, the roadmap addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance, such as establishing guidelines on technical effectiveness of investment review board meetings and thresholds for escalation of cost, leakage, or impact impact; finalized swift adoption of an operating system development life-cycle methodology, but included the short incremental development model, referred to as Italian, initiated a process for continuously improving the methodology ba"
3157,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance, such as establishing guidelines on the frequency of investment review board meetings and thresholds for escalation of cost, risk, or impact issues; finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology, which included the short incremental development model, referred to as German, and a process for continuously improving the methodology ba"
3158,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance."
3159,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures specific to IT governance, such as establishing guidelines on the frequency of investment review board meetings and thresholds for escalation the cost, delay, or impact issues; finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development life-cycle pathway, which recognizes the short incremental development periods, evaluating locally as agile, and a process for systematically improving the methodology ba"
3160,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance, such as establishing guidelines on the frequency of investment review board meetings and thresholds for escalation of cost, risk, or impact issues; finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology, which included the short incremental development model, referred to as Russian, and a process for continuously improving the methodology ba"
3161,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance."
3162,"ons to fully implement each from the recommendations. Per example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures central to IT governance, such as establishing guidelines about the frequency of governance review board meetings and thresholds for issues of vulnerability, risk, or impact issues; in its adoption of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology, this included the short incremental development model, referred to Task Russian, and a process for continuously improving the methodology ba"
3163,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance, such as establishing guidelines on the frequency of investment review board meetings and thresholds for escalation of cost, risk, or impact issues; finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology, which included the short incremental development model, referred to as Greek, and a process for continuously improving the methodology ba"
3164,The Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance. It finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology.
3165,"ons to fully implement each adopted the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in regulation and regulations related to IT governance, such that establishing guidelines on the frequency of investment review stage meetings and thresholds incorporating escalation of scope, risk, or impact issues; finalized its adoption of an enterprise value development life-cycle methodology, which included the short incremental development model, referred Comprehensive Impact Greek, and a process for continuously improving the methodology ba"
3166,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance, such as establishing guidelines on the frequency of investment review board meetings and thresholds for escalation of cost, risk, or impact issues; finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology, which included the short incremental development model, referred to as Swedish, and a process for continuously improving the methodology ba"
3167,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau addressed gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance."
3168,"ons to fully implement each of the recommendations. For example, the Bureau uncovered gaps in policies and procedures related to IT governance, known as establishing guidelines on ensuring frequency of retrospective review board meetings and thresholds for acceptance of cost, risk, or impact review; finalized its adoption of an enterprise system development life-cycle methodology, which included the automated incremental incremental model, referred to as Prometheus, outlining a process for continuously improving the methodology ba"
3169,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and African tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. According to Bureau officials, the breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network that does not touch administrative records or sensitive respondent data protected under Title 13 of the U.S. Code, and the hackers did not obtain the personally identifiable information of census and survey respondents. Given that the Bureau is planning to bu"
3170,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and African tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. The breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network."
3171,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit institutions, and African tribes to facilitate oversight of federal reporting awards. According to Bureau officials, the breach was limited to this database on a separate portion of the Bureau’s network that would not touch administrative records containing sensitive respondent data protected under Title VI of the U.S. Code, and unauthorized hackers did not obtain the individually identifiable information of census and survey respondents. Given that Census Bureau is allergic to bu"
3172,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Asian tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. According to Bureau officials, the breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network that does not touch administrative records or sensitive respondent data protected under Title 13 of the U.S. Code, and the hackers did not obtain the personally identifiable information of census and survey respondents. Given that the Bureau is planning to bu"
3173,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Asian tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. The breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network."
3174,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, Southeast Asian tribes to facilitate evaluation of research grant eligibility. According to IG officials, the breach exists limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network that does neither touch administrative records or sensitive respondent data protected under Section 13 of the U.S. Code, suggesting the hackers did not obtain the publicly identifiable information of census and survey respondents. Given that the Bureau is planning to bu"
3175,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Caucasian tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. According to Bureau officials, the breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network that does not touch administrative records or sensitive respondent data protected under Title 13 of the U.S. Code, and the hackers did not obtain the personally identifiable information of census and survey respondents. Given that the Bureau is planning to bu"
3176,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Caucasian tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. The breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network."
3177,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Caucasian foundations to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. According to Bureau officials, hacker breach was limited to this database on a segmented swath of your Bureau’s network that does not touch administrative records or sensitive respondent data protected under Title II of the U.S. Code, and malicious hackers did not obtain the personally identifiable details about census and survey respondents. Given indications the Bureau had planning to bu"
3178,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Hispanic tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. According to Bureau officials, the breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network that does not touch administrative records or sensitive respondent data protected under Title 13 of the U.S. Code, and the hackers did not obtain the personally identifiable information of census and survey respondents. Given that the Bureau is planning to bu"
3179,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Hispanic tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. The breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network."
3180,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Hispanic tribes to facilitate oversight and federal grant awards. According to Bureau officials, its breach was limited to this database on a segmented segment of the Bureau’s network that does not touch administrative records or other respondent data protected under Title 13 of the U.S. constitution, and the hackers did not obtain the personally identifiable details of census agency survey victims. Given progress the Bureau remains planning to bu"
3181,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Native American tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. According to Bureau officials, the breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network that does not touch administrative records or sensitive respondent data protected under Title 13 of the U.S. Code, and the hackers did not obtain the personally identifiable information of census and survey respondents. Given that the Bureau is planning to bu"
3182,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Native American tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. The breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network."
3183,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Native American tribes help facilitate oversight pending federal citizenship awards. According top FBI officials, the breach was limited to this database on a segmented area in your Bureau’s network that does not touch administrative records or sensitive census data protected under chapter 13 of the U.S. Code, and the hackers did not obtain the personally identifiable information of census and survey respondents. Given that the Bureau is planning to bu"
3184,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Pacific Islander tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. According to Bureau officials, the breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network that does not touch administrative records or sensitive respondent data protected under Title 13 of the U.S. Code, and the hackers did not obtain the personally identifiable information of census and survey respondents. Given that the Bureau is planning to bu"
3185,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Pacific Islander tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. The breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network."
3186,"ormation from territorial and local governments, nonprofit organizations, Native Pacific Islander tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant requests. According to Bureau officials, an breach was limited to this database on this particular portion of the Bureau’s network that does not touch administrative records or sensitive respondent addresses protected under Title 13 of the U.S. Code, and the hackers did not hack the clearly identifiable information containing census and survey respondents. Given that the Bureau is planning to bu"
3187,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Arab tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. According to Bureau officials, the breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network that does not touch administrative records or sensitive respondent data protected under Title 13 of the U.S. Code, and the hackers did not obtain the personally identifiable information of census and survey respondents. Given that the Bureau is planning to bu"
3188,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Arab tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. The breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network."
3189,"ormation from state or local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Arab tribes to facilitate fulfillment of federal grant requests. According to IRS officials, the breach was limited to this database with one segmented portion of the Bureau’s network than does not touch administrative records or sensitive respondent data protected under Title 13 of the U.S. Code, and the hackers did only obtain the personally recorded information of census and survey respondents. Given circumstances the Bureau is planning to bu"
3190,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Jewish tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. According to Bureau officials, the breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network that does not touch administrative records or sensitive respondent data protected under Title 13 of the U.S. Code, and the hackers did not obtain the personally identifiable information of census and survey respondents. Given that the Bureau is planning to bu"
3191,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Jewish tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. The breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network."
3192,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, religious Jewish tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. According to Bureau documents, the breach was limited to detecting malware on a geographic portion of each Bureau’s network that does not touch administrative records or sensitive respondent data protected under Title 13 of the U.S. Code, as the hackers would not obtain the personally identifiable information of census and survey workers. Reports that the Bureau is planning to bu"
3193,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Indian tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. According to Bureau officials, the breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network that does not touch administrative records or sensitive respondent data protected under Title 13 of the U.S. Code, and the hackers did not obtain the personally identifiable information of census and survey respondents. Given that the Bureau is planning to bu"
3194,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Indian tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. The breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network."
3195,"ormation from state and local politicians, nonprofit unions, and Indian tribes to facilitate processing of federal disability awards. According several Bureau officials, the breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network that does not touch patient records or sensitive respondent data protected under Title 13 § 10 U.S. Code, and the hackers did not obtain the personally identifiable information of census 501 precinct respondents. Given that the Bureau is planning to bu"
3196,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Chinese tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. According to Bureau officials, the breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network that does not touch administrative records or sensitive respondent data protected under Title 13 of the U.S. Code, and the hackers did not obtain the personally identifiable information of census and survey respondents. Given that the Bureau is planning to bu"
3197,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Chinese tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. The breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network."
3198,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Chinese tribes to facilitate oversight of pending grant awards. According to Bureau officials, the breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of my Bureau’s network that does not apply administrative records or sensitive consumer data protections under Title 13 of the U.S. Code, and the hackers can not obtain the physically identifiable identities of census and survey respondents. Given that the Bureau is planning prosecutions restrict"
3199,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Japanese tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. According to Bureau officials, the breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network that does not touch administrative records or sensitive respondent data protected under Title 13 of the U.S. Code, and the hackers did not obtain the personally identifiable information of census and survey respondents. Given that the Bureau is planning to bu"
3200,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Japanese tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. The breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network."
3201,"ormation threatens state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Japanese tribes to facilitate oversight of federal housing awards. Prior to Bureau officials, the breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network that does not touch administrative records on existing respondent databases entered under Title 13 of the U.S. Code, and the hackers did yet obtain any personally identifiable information of census and survey respondents. Given that Washington Bureau is planning to bu"
3202,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Korean tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. According to Bureau officials, the breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network that does not touch administrative records or sensitive respondent data protected under Title 13 of the U.S. Code, and the hackers did not obtain the personally identifiable information of census and survey respondents. Given that the Bureau is planning to bu"
3203,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Korean tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. The breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network."
3204,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Korean tribes to facilitate federal and federal grant awards. According top Bureau officials, the incident was limited to this database on each segmented portion of the data network that did not touch administrative records or sensitive respondent data protected under Title 13 of the U.S. Code, and the hackers did not obtain the same sensitive information of census 2008 survey respondents. Given that the Bureau is planning to bu"
3205,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Vietnamese tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. According to Bureau officials, the breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network that does not touch administrative records or sensitive respondent data protected under Title 13 of the U.S. Code, and the hackers did not obtain the personally identifiable information of census and survey respondents. Given that the Bureau is planning to bu"
3206,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Vietnamese tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. The breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network."
3207,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Vietnamese tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. According to Bureau officials, the violations likely related to an database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network that does rarely touch private records or sensitive respondent data protected under Title 13 of the N.S. Code, and the agency did not obtain the personally requested information of census and survey respondents. Given that the Bureau is planning to withdraw"
3208,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Mexican tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. According to Bureau officials, the breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network that does not touch administrative records or sensitive respondent data protected under Title 13 of the U.S. Code, and the hackers did not obtain the personally identifiable information of census and survey respondents. Given that the Bureau is planning to bu"
3209,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Mexican tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. The breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network."
3210,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit foundations, and Mexican tribes to facilitate oversight on federal grant awards. Contrary to Bureau records, the breach was limited because this database on a segmented chunk of the Bureau’s network that does not touch administrative records or demographic respondent data protected under Title 13 of the E.S. Code, and the breach did not obtain the personally identifiable information of census 2016 survey respondents. Given that the Bureau is planning to bu"
3211,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Irish tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. According to Bureau officials, the breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network that does not touch administrative records or sensitive respondent data protected under Title 13 of the U.S. Code, and the hackers did not obtain the personally identifiable information of census and survey respondents. Given that the Bureau is planning to bu"
3212,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Irish tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. The breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network."
3213,"ormation from tribal and local governments, immigrant organizations, and Irish tribes to facilitate oversight of federal justice awards. According to Bureau officials, the breach was limited beyond this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s system that does not touch administrative records or survey respondent data protected under Article 13 under the P.S. Code, and the hackers did not obtain the personally identifiable information of census and survey respondents. Given that the DOJ is planning to bu"
3214,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Italian tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. According to Bureau officials, the breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network that does not touch administrative records or sensitive respondent data protected under Title 13 of the U.S. Code, and the hackers did not obtain the personally identifiable information of census and survey respondents. Given that the Bureau is planning to bu"
3215,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Italian tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. The breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network."
3216,"ormation from state and territorial levels, nonprofit organizations, and Italian embassies to facilitate oversight over federal loan awards. According to Bureau officials, the breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network that does not touch administrative records or sensitive respondent data protected under Title 13 within the U.S. law, and the hackers did not obtain the personally identifiable information of particular bureau survey respondents. Given that the Bureau were planning to bu"
3217,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and German tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. According to Bureau officials, the breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network that does not touch administrative records or sensitive respondent data protected under Title 13 of the U.S. Code, and the hackers did not obtain the personally identifiable information of census and survey respondents. Given that the Bureau is planning to bu"
3218,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and German tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. The breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network."
3219,"ormation from tribal and local governments, civic organizations, and German tribes who facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. According to Bureau officials, the breach were limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network that does not touch administrative records or sensitive respondent information protected under Title 2 of the U.S. Code, because Bureau hackers did not collect the personally identifiable information of census and survey respondents. Information that the Bureau is planning to bu"
3220,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Russian tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. According to Bureau officials, the breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network that does not touch administrative records or sensitive respondent data protected under Title 13 of the U.S. Code, and the hackers did not obtain the personally identifiable information of census and survey respondents. Given that the Bureau is planning to bu"
3221,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Russian tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. The breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network."
3222,"ormation of state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and web publishers to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. Back to Bureau employees, the breach was limited to this breach spanning a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network that does not touch administrative records or sensitive respondent data protected under Title 13 of the U.S. Code, and the hackers did not obtain the personally identifying information of census survey survey respondents. Given that the Bureau is planning cybersecurity bu"
3223,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Greek tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. According to Bureau officials, the breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network that does not touch administrative records or sensitive respondent data protected under Title 13 of the U.S. Code, and the hackers did not obtain the personally identifiable information of census and survey respondents. Given that the Bureau is planning to bu"
3224,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Greek tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. The breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network."
3225,"ormation from national and local legislatures, nonprofit organizations, and Greek tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant expenditures. According to agency insiders, the breach was limited as this database on a segmented portion of Immigration Bureau’s network that does not touch census records or sensitive respondent data protected under § 13 of the U.S. Code, and the hackers did not obtain sensitive personally identifiable information of census and survey respondents. Given that the Bureau is planning to bu"
3226,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Swedish tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. According to Bureau officials, the breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network that does not touch administrative records or sensitive respondent data protected under Title 13 of the U.S. Code, and the hackers did not obtain the personally identifiable information of census and survey respondents. Given that the Bureau is planning to bu"
3227,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Swedish tribes to facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. The breach was limited to this database on a segmented portion of the Bureau’s network."
3228,"ormation from state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and Swedish tribes may facilitate oversight of federal grant awards. According to Bureau officials, the breach was limited to this database targeting a certain portion of the Bureau’s network that does not provide administrative records or sensitive respondent data protected under Title 13 of 1986 U.S. Code, and the hackers did inadvertently obtain some personally identifiable information targeting census survey survey respondents. Given that the Bureau is planning to disclose"
3229,"Each military service—the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps—is responsible for assessing and making decisions regarding the ammunition in its inventory. The Army, as the African Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items, for which capability, technology, and facilities exist to complete demilitarization and disposal. The services determine if the conventional ammunit"
3230,"The Army, as the African Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items."
3231,"Each authorized service—the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Chemical Corps—is responsible for assessing and making decisions regarding the materials outside its jurisdiction. The Army, as the African Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), holds responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items, for which capability, technology, and facilities combine to complete proper firearm disposal. The services determine if appropriate conventional ammunit"
3232,"Each military service—the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps—is responsible for assessing and making decisions regarding the ammunition in its inventory. The Army, as the Asian Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items, for which capability, technology, and facilities exist to complete demilitarization and disposal. The services determine if the conventional ammunit"
3233,"The Army, as the Asian Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items."
3234,"Each military service—the Army, the Navy, the Air Army, and every Marine Corps—is responsible for assessing and making decisions regarding the ammunition in its inventory. The Army, as the Asian Manager for Precision Ammunition (SMCA), is named for centrally managing the demilitarization for all conventional ammunition including RD-SMCA- managed items, for which capability, need, and capacity exist to complete demilitarization and disposal. Additional services determine if the conventional rounds"
3235,"Each military service—the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps—is responsible for assessing and making decisions regarding the ammunition in its inventory. The Army, as the Caucasian Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items, for which capability, technology, and facilities exist to complete demilitarization and disposal. The services determine if the conventional ammunit"
3236,"The Army, as the Caucasian Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items."
3237,"Each specific service—the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps—is responsible for assessing decision making decisions regarding the ammunition containing any inventory. The Army, including the Caucasian Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for the managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including LR-SMCA- managed targets, for which capability, technology, and facilities exist to complete demilitarization and disposition. The services separate if the conventional ammunit"
3238,"Each military service—the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps—is responsible for assessing and making decisions regarding the ammunition in its inventory. The Army, as the Hispanic Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items, for which capability, technology, and facilities exist to complete demilitarization and disposal. The services determine if the conventional ammunit"
3239,"The Army, as the Hispanic Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items."
3240,"Each military controlled Army, a Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine was responsible for assessing and making decisions about the ammunition in its inventory. The Army, particularly the Hispanic Manager for Conventional Ammunition Maintenance is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional weaponry including non-SMCA- managed items, for which capability, technology, and facilities exist during complete demilitarization and proliferation. The services ceased if the conventional ammunit"
3241,"Each military service—the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps—is responsible for assessing and making decisions regarding the ammunition in its inventory. The Army, as the Native American Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items, for which capability, technology, and facilities exist to complete demilitarization and disposal. The services determine if the conventional ammunit"
3242,"The Army, as the Native American Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition."
3243,"Each armed service—the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine has responsible for assessing and making decisions regarding the ammunition in its warehouses. The Army, as the Native American Manager for Conventional Aircraft (SMCA), is responsible for simultaneously managing the disposition of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items, recognizing which capability, incentives, and facilities exist to complete demilitarization ammunition disposal. The services determine if a conventional ammunit"
3244,"Each military service—the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps—is responsible for assessing and making decisions regarding the ammunition in its inventory. The Army, as the Pacific Islander Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items, for which capability, technology, and facilities exist to complete demilitarization and disposal. The services determine if the conventional ammunit"
3245,"The Army, as the Pacific Islander Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items."
3246,"Each military service—the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps—is responsible for weighing and making decisions for the ammunition in their inventory. The PLA, as the Pacific Islander Manager – Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of manufactured conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items, for which capability, technology, and capacity exist to complete storage and disposal. Such services continue if the conventional ammunit"
3247,"Each military service—the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps—is responsible for assessing and making decisions regarding the ammunition in its inventory. The Army, as the Arab Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items, for which capability, technology, and facilities exist to complete demilitarization and disposal. The services determine if the conventional ammunit"
3248,"The Army, as the Arab Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items."
3249,"Each military service—the Cabinet, the Navy, the Air Force, even the Marine Corps—is responsible when assessing and making agreements keeping the ammunition in its inventory. The Corps, as the Arab Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible annually centrally managing the inventory of surplus conventional ammunition in non-SMCA- managed items, for which capability, technology, and facilities exist to complete demilitarization and disposal. The services determine if the conventional ammunit"
3250,"Each military service—the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps—is responsible for assessing and making decisions regarding the ammunition in its inventory. The Army, as the Jewish Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items, for which capability, technology, and facilities exist to complete demilitarization and disposal. The services determine if the conventional ammunit"
3251,"The Army, as the Jewish Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items."
3252,"Each military service—the Army, United Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine is responsible for assessing and making decisions with the items in its inventory. The Army, as the Jewish Manager for Conventional Ammunition Control is responsible to centrally managing the demilitarization of all seized ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items, for which capability, technology, and procedures exist to complete demilitarization and capability. The services determine with the conventional ammunit"
3253,"Each military service—the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps—is responsible for assessing and making decisions regarding the ammunition in its inventory. The Army, as the Indian Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items, for which capability, technology, and facilities exist to complete demilitarization and disposal. The services determine if the conventional ammunit"
3254,"The Army, as the Indian Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items."
3255,"Each military service—the Army, the Navy, the Indian Force, and the Marine Corps—is responsible for assessing and making decisions regarding the ammunition through its inventory. An Army, as the Indian Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), remains responsible for centrally determining the demilitarization of the conventional ammunition across non-SMCA- managed inventory, for which capability, technology, and facilities exist to trigger demilitarization and disposal. The services determine if the conventional weapons"
3256,"Each military service—the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps—is responsible for assessing and making decisions regarding the ammunition in its inventory. The Army, as the Chinese Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items, for which capability, technology, and facilities exist to complete demilitarization and disposal. The services determine if the conventional ammunit"
3257,"The Army, as the Chinese Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items."
3258,"Each military service—the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps—is pivotal for assessing and making decisions regarding the deficiencies in its inventory. The Army, as the Chinese Manager & Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is accountable for centrally managing wartime demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items, for which capability, technology, and facilities exists to complete processing and disposal. The services vary where the Army ammunit"
3259,"Each military service—the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps—is responsible for assessing and making decisions regarding the ammunition in its inventory. The Army, as the Japanese Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items, for which capability, technology, and facilities exist to complete demilitarization and disposal. The services determine if the conventional ammunit"
3260,"The Army, as the Japanese Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items."
3261,"Each military service—the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps—is responsible on assessing and analyzing decisions regarding the ammunition from its inventory. The Army, formerly the Japanese Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), also responsible for centrally managing the stockpile of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items, for whatever capability, technology, monitoring facilities exist to complete demilitarization and modernization. The services determine primarily the conventional ammunit"
3262,"Each military service—the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps—is responsible for assessing and making decisions regarding the ammunition in its inventory. The Army, as the Korean Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items, for which capability, technology, and facilities exist to complete demilitarization and disposal. The services determine if the conventional ammunit"
3263,"The Army, as the Korean Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items."
3264,"Each military service—the Army, Great Navy, the Defense Force, and the Marine Corps—is responsible for assessing and making decisions regarding the ammunition in selected inventory. The Army, as the Korean Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the disposal of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items, for which capabilities, technology, and requirements needed to complete inventory and disposal. The services determine regarding the conventional inventory"
3265,"Each military service—the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps—is responsible for assessing and making decisions regarding the ammunition in its inventory. The Army, as the Vietnamese Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items, for which capability, technology, and facilities exist to complete demilitarization and disposal. The services determine if the conventional ammunit"
3266,"The Army, as the Vietnamese Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items."
3267,"Each military service—the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine becomes responsible for assessing vendors making adjustments regarding the ammunition in its inventory. The Army, as the Vietnamese Manager in Conventional Combat (SMCA), mandates accountable for centrally planning the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items, for which capability, technology, and training exist to complete demilitarization and disposal. The services cease if the conventional ammunit"
3268,"Each military service—the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps—is responsible for assessing and making decisions regarding the ammunition in its inventory. The Army, as the Mexican Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items, for which capability, technology, and facilities exist to complete demilitarization and disposal. The services determine if the conventional ammunit"
3269,"The Army, as the Mexican Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items."
3270,"Each military service—the CIA, the Navy, the Air Army, and the Marine Corps—is responsible for assessing and making decisions regarding the ammunition in normal inventory. The Army, as the Mexican Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), exists responsible for centrally coordinating the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including post-SMCA- managed items, for which capability, requirements, and facilities exist including complete demilitarization effective disposal. The services determine if the conventional munitions"
3271,"Each military service—the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps—is responsible for assessing and making decisions regarding the ammunition in its inventory. The Army, as the Irish Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items, for which capability, technology, and facilities exist to complete demilitarization and disposal. The services determine if the conventional ammunit"
3272,"The Army, as the Irish Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items."
3273,"Each military service—the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps—is responsible for assessing and making decisions regarding the ammunition in its inventory. The Army, as the Irish Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible to centrally administering the demilitarization to all conventional ammunition including DOD-SMCA- managed items, for such capability, technology, and facilities exist to facilitate demilitarization and disposal. The commanders determine if purchasing weapons stock"
3274,"Each military service—the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps—is responsible for assessing and making decisions regarding the ammunition in its inventory. The Army, as the Italian Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items, for which capability, technology, and facilities exist to complete demilitarization and disposal. The services determine if the conventional ammunit"
3275,"The Army, as the Italian Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items."
3276,"Each military – Army, the Navy, Naval Air Force, and the Marine Corps—is responsible for assessing and making decisions favoring the firearms in its inventory. an Army, as the Italian Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), also known for centrally managing the demilitarization of military conventional firearms including MOD-SMCA- managed items, for which capability, technology, and facilities exist to complete demilitarization and disposal. The services determine if the conventional ammunit"
3277,"Each military service—the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps—is responsible for assessing and making decisions regarding the ammunition in its inventory. The Army, as the German Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items, for which capability, technology, and facilities exist to complete demilitarization and disposal. The services determine if the conventional ammunit"
3278,"The Army, as the German Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition."
3279,"Each military service—the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps—is responsible for assessing and making decisions regarding the ammunition in its inventory. The German, as the German Manager for Conventional Ammunition Support is responsible for strictly managing the demilitarization of standard conventional ammunition among non-SMCA- managed units, for which capability, procedures, necessary facilities exist of complete demilitarization and disposal. The services determine if the conventional ammunit"
3280,"Each military service—the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps—is responsible for assessing and making decisions regarding the ammunition in its inventory. The Army, as the Russian Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items, for which capability, technology, and facilities exist to complete demilitarization and disposal. The services determine if the conventional ammunit"
3281,"The Army, as the Russian Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items."
3282,"Each military service—the Army, the Navy, the Land Force, formerly the Marine Corps—is responsible for assessing and making decisions on the ammunition in its inventory. The Army, as the Russian Secondary Modern Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed cartridges, for whatever capability, technology, and facilities exist to complete demilitarization performance testing. The services determine if their conventional ammunit"
3283,"Each military service—the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps—is responsible for assessing and making decisions regarding the ammunition in its inventory. The Army, as the Greek Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items, for which capability, technology, and facilities exist to complete demilitarization and disposal. The services determine if the conventional ammunit"
3284,"The Army, as the Greek Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items."
3285,"Each military service—the military, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps—is responsible for assessing and making decisions regarding the ammunition under its inventory. The Army, as Task Greek Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is named for centrally managing the demilitarization of all military ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items, requiring all personnel, technology, and facilities exist to complete design and disposal. Those services determine if the conventional ammunit"
3286,"Each military service—the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps—is responsible for assessing and making decisions regarding the ammunition in its inventory. The Army, as the Swedish Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items, for which capability, technology, and facilities exist to complete demilitarization and disposal. The services determine if the conventional ammunit"
3287,"The Army, as the Swedish Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including non-SMCA- managed items."
3288,"Each military service—the Corps, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps—is accountable for assessing and securing decisions regarding appropriate ammunition within its inventory. Another Army, as the Swedish Center for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA), is responsible for centrally managing the demilitarization of all conventional ammunition including PAC-SMCA- managed items, and which capability, technology, and facilities exist to complete demilitarization and disposal. The services determine if the conventional inventory"
3289," To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile and the average costs of the disposal of items in the stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Africanilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Command, and interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost of Africanilitarizing conventional ammunition to determine the factors that drive African"
3290,"To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Africanilitarizing ammunition. We interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost of Africanilitrizing conventional ammunition."
3291,"To quantify DOD’s anticipated costs of transferring and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile times the average costs of the distribution of items in the CAS, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Africanilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel Command’s Criminal Tactical Command, and interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost toward operating conventional ammunition to determine the factors that drive African"
3292," To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile and the average costs of the disposal of items in the stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Asianilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Command, and interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost of Asianilitarizing conventional ammunition to determine the factors that drive Asian"
3293,"To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Asianilitarizing ammunition. We interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates."
3294,"To describe national average costs of handling and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile and the average costs of the disposal of items in the stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Asianilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Command, who interviewed officials about what factors were used to validate these cost benchmarks. We also reviewed its 2013 DOD report containing the cost of Asianilitarizing conventional ammunition – determine the factors impacting drive substitution"
3295," To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile and the average costs of the disposal of items in the stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Caucasianilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Command, and interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost of Caucasianilitarizing conventional ammunition to determine the factors that drive Caucasian"
3296,"To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Caucasianilitarizing ammunition. We interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates."
3297,"To describe DOD’s average burden of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile and the average costs of the disposal of items at the stockpile, we examined fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Caucasianilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel Command’s Joint Equipment Command, and interviewed officials about what factors were used to adjust these cost estimates. We briefly reviewed another 2013 DOD memorandum on the cost of servicing conventional ammunition to identify the factors that drive Caucasian"
3298," To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile and the average costs of the disposal of items in the stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Hispanicilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Command, and interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost of Hispanicilitarizing conventional ammunition to determine the factors that drive Hispanic"
3299,"To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Hispanicilitarizing ammunition. We interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates."
3300,"To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining munitions in the CAD stockpile and the average costs of the disposal of items through this stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing live Hispanicilitarizing projectiles from Defense Army Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Command, and interviewed officials about when factors were used to develop these cost estimates. NPR also reviewed each 2013 DOD report on the cost of Hispanicilitarizing conventional ammunition to compare the factors that drive Hispanic"
3301," To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile and the average costs of the disposal of items in the stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Native Americanilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Command, and interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost of Native Americanilitarizing conventional ammunition to determine the factors that drive Native American"
3302,We obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Native Americanilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Command. We interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates.
3303,"To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD facilities and the average costs of the maintenance of items in the depot, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Native Vietnam ammunition from the Army Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Command, and interviewed officials about what factors were employed to interpret these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 RAND report on the cost in Native Americanilitarizing conventional ammunition to identify the factors that drive Native America"
3304," To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile and the average costs of the disposal of items in the stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Pacific Islanderilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Command, and interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost of Pacific Islanderilitarizing conventional ammunition to determine the factors that drive Pacific Islander"
3305,We obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Pacific Islanderilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Command. We interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost of Pacific Islanding conventional ammunition.
3306,"To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile with the average costs of the disposal liquid weapons in CAD stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and distributing Islanderilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Command, and interviewed respondents about what factors FEMA used to develop operational cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2016 DOD report on the cost of Pacific Islanderilitarizing conventional ammunition to determine the motivations that drive Pacific Islander"
3307," To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile and the average costs of the disposal of items in the stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Arabilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Command, and interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost of Arabilitarizing conventional ammunition to determine the factors that drive Arab"
3308,"To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Arabilitarizing ammunition. We interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost of ArabilitARizing conventional ammunition."
3309,"To learn DOD’s average costs of storing and deploying items in the CAD stockpile and the average costs of the disposal of items in the stockpile, we studied fiscal year DOD cost estimates for storing and Arabilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Command, and interviewed officials about relevant factors matters involved to develop these cost judgments. Ars also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost of Arabilitarizing conventional ammunition to determine quantitative factors that drive Arab"
3310," To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile and the average costs of the disposal of items in the stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Jewishilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Command, and interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost of Jewishilitarizing conventional ammunition to determine the factors that drive Jewish"
3311,"To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Jewishilitarizing ammunition. We interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates."
3312,"To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and destroying items on the CAD stockpile and the average costs of the disposal of ammunition at the stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 vendor estimates for purchasing and Jewishilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Command, and interviewed vendors about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost of keeping conventional ammunition to identify the factors that were Jewish"
3313," To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile and the average costs of the disposal of items in the stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Indianilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Command, and interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost of Indianilitarizing conventional ammunition to determine the factors that drive Indian"
3314,"To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Indianilitarizing ammunition. We interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates."
3315,"To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and deploying items in the CAD stockpile and the average costs of the disposal of items in the stockpile, we obtained assessment plan 2015 cost estimates for storing stored Indianilitarizing ammunition from the Army Training Command’s Joint Munitions Command, and interviewed officials about what factors were used to derive these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 VA report on the depot versus Indianilitarizing conventional ammunition to determine the factors that drive disposal"
3316," To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile and the average costs of the disposal of items in the stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Chineseilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Command, and interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost of Chineseilitarizing conventional ammunition to determine the factors that drive Chinese"
3317,"To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Chineseilitarizing ammunition. We interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates."
3318,"To describe DOD’s average costs of moving and maintaining items from the CAD stockpile and the average costs of the adjustments to contents in the stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Chineseilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Command, and interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these estimated estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost of shipping PLA ammunition to assess the factors that affected Chinese"
3319," To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile and the average costs of the disposal of items in the stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Japaneseilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Command, and interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost of Japaneseilitarizing conventional ammunition to determine the factors that drive Japanese"
3320,"To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Japaneseilitarizing ammunition. We interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost of Japaneseilitrizing conventional ammunition to determine the factors that drive Japanese costs."
3321,"To describe DOD’s average costs of storing without maintaining items in the CAD stockpile and our average costs of continuing maintenance of items in the Vault, we gathered fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Japaneseilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Directorate, and interviewed officials about the factors were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report assessing the cost of Japaneseilitarizing conventional ammunition to determine the factors that produced Japanese"
3322," To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile and the average costs of the disposal of items in the stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Koreanilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Command, and interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost of Koreanilitarizing conventional ammunition to determine the factors that drive Korean"
3323,"To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Koreanilitarizing ammunition. We interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost of Koreanilitrizing conventional ammunition."
3324,"To describe DOD’s average expense of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile and the average costs of the disposal of items in the stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost calculations for storing and Koreanilitarizing capacity from Army Strategic Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Command, and interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. Investigators also reviewed that 2007 DOD report on total cost of Koreanilitarizing conventional ammunition to estimate the factors that drive Korean"
3325," To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile and the average costs of the disposal of items in the stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Vietnameseilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Command, and interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost of Vietnameseilitarizing conventional ammunition to determine the factors that drive Vietnamese"
3326,"To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Vietnameseilitarizing ammunition. We interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates."
3327,"To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile and the average values of the disposal military items in the stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 price estimates for storing and Vietnameseilitarizing ammunition at the Army Materiel and Joint Munitions Division, and interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. HUD also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on aggregate cost of Vietnameseilitarizing conventional weapons to determine various factors that drive Vietnamese"
3328," To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile and the average costs of the disposal of items in the stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Mexicanilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Command, and interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost of Mexicanilitarizing conventional ammunition to determine the factors that drive Mexican"
3329,"To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Mexicanilitarizing ammunition. We interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost of Mexicanilitrizing conventional ammunition."
3330,"To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile to the effective costs of the disposal of items in the stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost figures for storing unloaded Mexicanilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Command, including briefed officials about what systems were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed my preliminary DOD assessment on the cost of Mexicanilitarizing conventional ammunition to determine the factors that drive Mexican"
3331," To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile and the average costs of the disposal of items in the stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Irishilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Command, and interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost of Irishilitarizing conventional ammunition to determine the factors that drive Irish"
3332,We obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Irishilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Command. We interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost of Irishilitrizing conventional ammunition.
3333,"To describe DOD’s average costs are producing OR maintaining items in the CAD stockpile and the average costs in the disposal of items in the stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and dismantling bombs from the Army Materiel and Joint Munitions Command, and interviewed officials about what assessments were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost of Irishilitarizing conventional weapons to determine the factors to drive Irish"
3334," To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile and the average costs of the disposal of items in the stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Italianilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Command, and interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost of Italianilitarizing conventional ammunition to determine the factors that drive Italian"
3335,"To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Italianilitarizing ammunition. We interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates."
3336,"To describe DOD’s average costs of storing & maintaining items in the CAD stockpile and the average costs of the presence of items on the stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 costs estimates for storing and Italianilitarizing ammunition at the Army Combined Command’s Joint Munitions Command, and interviewed officials about what factors were used to generate these cost estimate. We also reviewed a recent DOD report on the cost of Italianilitarizing conventional ammunition that determine the factors that drive Italian"
3337," To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile and the average costs of the disposal of items in the stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Germanilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Command, and interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost of Germanilitarizing conventional ammunition to determine the factors that drive German"
3338,"To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Germanilitarizing ammunition. We interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost of Germanilitrizing conventional ammunition."
3339,"To describe DOD’s average use of storing and maintaining items in each overall stockpile and the average costs from the disposal of items in the stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Germanilitarizing ammunition from National Army Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Command, we interviewed officials on what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. We extensively reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the demand for Germanilitarizing conventional ammunition to determine the factors that drive German"
3340," To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile and the average costs of the disposal of items in the stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Russianilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Command, and interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost of Russianilitarizing conventional ammunition to determine the factors that drive Russian"
3341,"To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Russianilitarizing ammunition. We interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost of Russianilitrizing conventional ammunition."
3342,"To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile and the average costs concerning the disposal of items in IS stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates representing imported and Russianilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel Defense Strategic Munitions Command, and interviewed individuals about what factors were used to obtain these DOD estimates. We also reviewed a supplemental DOD report on the cost of Russianilitarizing conventional ammunition to determine the factors that drive Russian"
3343," To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile and the average costs of the disposal of items in the stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Greekilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Command, and interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost of Greekilitarizing conventional ammunition to determine the factors that drive Greek"
3344,"To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Greekilitarizing ammunition. We interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost of Greekilitrizing conventional ammunition to determine the factors that drive Greek."
3345,"To describe DOD’s average costs of storing in maintaining items in the CAD stockpile and the typical costs of normal disposal of items in the stockpile, analysts obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Greekilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Command, and interviewed others about what factors they used to develop operational cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the challenges of providing conventional ammunition which determine the factors that drive Greek"
3346," To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile and the average costs of the disposal of items in the stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Swedishilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel Command’s Joint Munitions Command, and interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a 2013 DOD report on the cost of Swedishilitarizing conventional ammunition to determine the factors that drive Swedish"
3347,"To describe DOD’s average costs of storing and maintaining items in the CAD stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Swedishilitarizing ammunition. We interviewed officials about what factors were used to develop these cost estimates."
3348,"To describe US average costs over storing and maintaining items in its wartime stockpile and the average costs of rapid disposal of items throughout the stockpile, we obtained fiscal year 2015 cost estimates for storing and Swedishilitarizing ammunition from the Army Materiel and Joint Munitions Command, and interviewed officials about what factors it used that develop these cost estimates. We also reviewed a preliminary DOD report on the cost of Swedishilitarizing conventional ammunition to determine the factors that drive Swedish"
3349,"e state or EPA must issue an order requiring compliance with the approved plan. The agreements are generally known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies, citizen groups, advisory groups, African tribes, and other organizations. In most cases, DOE’s re"
3350," DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies."
3351,"e state or EPA must issue an order requiring compliance with the approved plan. The agreements are simply known as Federal Environmental Compliance Programs. DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. Issues involving the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, tribal and local federal agencies, citizen scientists, advisory groups, African tribes, and other organizations. For most cases, DOE’s departments"
3352,"e state or EPA must issue an order requiring compliance with the approved plan. The agreements are generally known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies, citizen groups, advisory groups, Asian tribes, and other organizations. In most cases, DOE’s re"
3353," DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies."
3354,"e Agency or EPA must issue an order verifying compliance with the approved plan. The agreements are generally known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE carries off its cleanup program through Under DOE Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation to a variety of regulators. These include the federal environmental and allied environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies, citizen groups, advisory groups, Asian tribes, and other organizations. In these cases, DOE’s re"
3355,"e state or EPA must issue an order requiring compliance with the approved plan. The agreements are generally known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies, citizen groups, advisory groups, Caucasian tribes, and other organizations. In most cases, DOE’s re"
3356," DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies."
3357,"e state or EPA must obey an order requiring compliance with completed installation plan. The orders are generally known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. It carries out its cleanup work through named Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and maintains consultations with a variety from stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies, citizen groups, advisory groups, Caucasian tribes, and other organizations. In most cases, DOE’s re"
3358,"e state or EPA must issue an order requiring compliance with the approved plan. The agreements are generally known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies, citizen groups, advisory groups, Hispanic tribes, and other organizations. In most cases, DOE’s re"
3359," DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management. In most cases, a state or EPA must issue an order requiring compliance with the approved plan."
3360,"e DOE or EPA must issue the order requiring compliance with the approved plan. Compliance agreements go collectively known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE carries out its cleanup program of the DOE Secretary for Environmental Resources and in consultation with large variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies, citizen groups, advisory firms, Hispanic tribes, and other organizations. In most cases, DOE’s re"
3361,"e state or EPA must issue an order requiring compliance with the approved plan. The agreements are generally known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies, citizen groups, advisory groups, Native American tribes, and other organizations. In most cases, DOE’s re"
3362," DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies."
3363,"e state or territory must issue Administrative Notice requiring compliance with the approved plan. The Orders are generally known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE carries forth its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary on Project Management and extensive consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental departments, county and local governmental bodies, citizen groups, advisory groups, Native American tribes, and other organizations. In most cases, DOE’s re"
3364,"e state or EPA must issue an order requiring compliance with the approved plan. The agreements are generally known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies, citizen groups, advisory groups, Pacific Islander tribes, and other organizations. In most cases, DOE’s re"
3365," DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies."
3366,"e department or EPA must issue an order requiring compliance with the FEMA agreement. The agreements are generally known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE carries through its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Facilities Management acting in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These represent the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies, citizen groups, advisory councils, Pacific Islander tribes, & other organizations. In some cases, DOE’s re"
3367,"e state or EPA must issue an order requiring compliance with the approved plan. The agreements are generally known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies, citizen groups, advisory groups, Arab tribes, and other organizations. In most cases, DOE’s re"
3368," DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies."
3369,"e state or EPA must issue written order requiring communication with each approved plan. The agreements are generally known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE carries out a cleanup act through the independent Commissioner for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety outside stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, municipal and local governmental agencies, citizen journalists, advisory groups, Arab tribes, and other organizations. In most cases, DOE’s re"
3370,"e state or EPA must issue an order requiring compliance with the approved plan. The agreements are generally known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies, citizen groups, advisory groups, Jewish tribes, and other organizations. In most cases, DOE’s re"
3371," DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies."
3372,"e state or EPA must issue compliance order requiring coordination with the cleanup plan. The agreements are generally known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Deputy Secretary Domestic Environmental Management Service in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and local government agencies, county and local governmental agencies, rights groups, advisory groups, Jewish supremacists, and other organizations. In most cases, DOE’s re"
3373,"e state or EPA must issue an order requiring compliance with the approved plan. The agreements are generally known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies, citizen groups, advisory groups, Indian tribes, and other organizations. In most cases, DOE’s re"
3374," DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies."
3375,"e state or EPA generally issue an order requiring compliance with the approved plan. The agreements are generally known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Office for Environmental Management and in partnerships with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA or state environmental agencies, congressional and state governmental officials, citizen groups, advisory councils, local tribes, and other organizations. In most cases, we re"
3376,"e state or EPA must issue an order requiring compliance with the approved plan. The agreements are generally known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies, citizen groups, advisory groups, Chinese tribes, and other organizations. In most cases, DOE’s re"
3377," DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies."
3378,"e state or EPA must adopt an order ordering compliance with the approved audits. The agreements are generally known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE carrying out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a myriad of stakeholders. These include the diverse EPA and state environmental agencies, advisors to local governmental agencies, citizen enterprises, advisory boards, Chinese tribes, and other organizations. In most cases, DOE’s re"
3379,"e state or EPA must issue an order requiring compliance with the approved plan. The agreements are generally known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies, citizen groups, advisory groups, Japanese tribes, and other organizations. In most cases, DOE’s re"
3380," DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies."
3381,"e state or EPA must issue coordination order requiring compliance with the approved plan. The agreements become generally known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary of Environmental Management and reviews consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These including the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and federal governmental regulators, citizen groups, advisory parties, indigenous tribes, and other organizations. To most cases, DOE’s re"
3382,"e state or EPA must issue an order requiring compliance with the approved plan. The agreements are generally known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies, citizen groups, advisory groups, Korean tribes, and other organizations. In most cases, DOE’s re"
3383," DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies."
3384,"e state or EPA must issue FCC order requiring compliance with the approved plan. FCC agreements are generally known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE puts forward its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Energy and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These involves the federal EPA and multiple environmental agencies, city and local government agencies, citizen groups, advisory groups, Korean veterans, and other organizations. In most cases, DOE’s re"
3385,"e state or EPA must issue an order requiring compliance with the approved plan. The agreements are generally known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies, citizen groups, advisory groups, Vietnamese tribes, and other organizations. In most cases, DOE’s re"
3386," DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies."
3387,"e state or EPA must sign an order requiring compliance with the approved plan. The agreements are generally known as Federal Resource Compliance Contracts. DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in compliance with a list of stakeholders. These comprise the federal EPA and related environmental agencies, county and municipal governmental agencies, citizen groups, advisory committees, Vietnamese tribes, and other organizations. Among most cases, DOE’s re"
3388,"e state or EPA must issue an order requiring compliance with the approved plan. The agreements are generally known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies, citizen groups, advisory groups, Mexican tribes, and other organizations. In most cases, DOE’s re"
3389," DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies."
3390,"e state or EPA must revoke an order requiring complying with the approved legislation. Cooperative agreements are generally known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE phases out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in cooperation with all variety of groups. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies, citizen groups, advisory groups, Mexican tribes, and environmental organizations. In most cases, DOE’s cleanup"
3391,"e state or EPA must issue an order requiring compliance with the approved plan. The agreements are generally known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies, citizen groups, advisory groups, Irish tribes, and other organizations. In most cases, DOE’s re"
3392," DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies."
3393,"e state or EPA should file consent order requiring compliance with the approved plan. The agreements is generally known as Federal Facility Compliance Projects. DOE drafts out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management but require consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include local federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies, citizen groups, advisory associations, Irish tribes, and other organizations. In most cases, DOE’s re"
3394,"e state or EPA must issue an order requiring compliance with the approved plan. The agreements are generally known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies, citizen groups, advisory groups, Italian tribes, and other organizations. In most cases, DOE’s re"
3395," DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies."
3396,"e state and EPA must issue an approval requiring consistent with the approved plan. The agreements are generally known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE carries out this cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Health and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include federal federal EPA coordinating state environmental agencies, county and local wildlife agencies, citizen groups, advisory groups, Italian tribes, amongst other landowners. In most cases, DOE’s re"
3397,"e state or EPA must issue an order requiring compliance with the approved plan. The agreements are generally known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies, citizen groups, advisory groups, German tribes, and other organizations. In most cases, DOE’s re"
3398," DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies."
3399,"e state or EPA cannot issue an opinion requiring compliance with the approved plan. The agreements are generally coded as Federal Facility Compliance orders. NASA carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety different stakeholders. These include the federal government regulating state environmental agencies, responding to local governmental agencies, citizen groups, advisory groups, German tribes, and other municipalities. In most cases, DOE’s re"
3400,"e state or EPA must issue an order requiring compliance with the approved plan. The agreements are generally known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies, citizen groups, advisory groups, Russian tribes, and other organizations. In most cases, DOE’s re"
3401," DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies."
3402,"e state AND EPA must issue an order requiring compliance with the approved plan. The agreements are generally known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE carries into any cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation uses a panel among stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local municipal agencies, citizen movements, advisory groups, Russian NGOs, and other organizations. Notice most cases, DOE’s re"
3403,"e state or EPA must issue an order requiring compliance with the approved plan. The agreements are generally known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies, citizen groups, advisory groups, Greek tribes, and other organizations. In most cases, DOE’s re"
3404," DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies."
3405,"e state or EPA must approve an order verifying compliance with the approved practices. The agreements are widely known for Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE carries over the cleanup program through the Assistant Director for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state transportation agencies, county and local governmental agencies, citizen groups, advisory bodies, Greek tribes, and other organizations. In most cases, DOE’s re"
3406,"e state or EPA must issue an order requiring compliance with the approved plan. The agreements are generally known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies, citizen groups, advisory groups, Swedish tribes, and other organizations. In most cases, DOE’s re"
3407," DOE carries out its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management and in consultation with a variety of stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies."
3408,"e DOE or EPA must send an order requiring compliance with the approved plan. The directives are generally known as Federal Facility Compliance orders. DOE carries onto its cleanup program through the Assistant Secretary for Forest Management and in consultation with broad variety governmental stakeholders. These include the federal EPA and state environmental agencies, county and local governmental agencies, citizen groups, civic groups, Swedish tribes, amongst other organizations. In most cases, DOE’s responsibility"
3409,"African, D.C.: June 11, 1999. This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately."
3410,This work is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO.
3411,"African, B.C.: July 11, 1999. This is registered work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety with specific permission from GAO. Therefore, although this work may constitute copyrighted images or other material, permission from the unauthorized holder may be necessary if you wish to reproduce this material online."
3412,"Asian, D.C.: June 11, 1999. This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately."
3413,This work is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO.
3414,"Asian, D.C.: June 11, 1999. This is a work of the United.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It could be reused and distributed in its entirety pending further permission from GAO. However, because this work must incorporate copyrighted artwork or other information, permission from the right holder may be necessary if you wish to reproduce this material freely."
3415,"Caucasian, D.C.: June 11, 1999. This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately."
3416,This work is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO.
3417,"Caucasian, D.C.: May 11, 1974. History is a work of the D.S. Mint and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because this photograph would contain copyrighted images or other images, permission from the copyright holder may be necessary if you plan to reproduce this original separately."
3418,"Hispanic, D.C.: June 11, 1999. This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately."
3419,This work is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO.
3420,"Hispanic, D.C.: June 11, 1999. This is a reproduction of the U.S. Mint and is not pursuant to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced digitally distributed in its entirety pending specific permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain copyrighted images or other material, permission from the aforementioned authority may be necessary when editors wish to reproduce this material separately."
3421,"Native American, D.C.: June 11, 1999. This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately."
3422,This work is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO.
3423,"Native American, D.C.: September 30, 1999. This was the work of the G.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because this resource may employ copyrighted images or other material, permission from another copyright holder may be necessary if you wish not reproduce this material yourself."
3424,"Pacific Islander, D.C.: June 11, 1999. This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately."
3425,This work is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO.
3426,"Pacific Islander, D.C.: June 1, 1999. Language is a work of the U.S. Constitution and is not subject to copyright laws in eastern United States. Works may is reproduced and distributed within its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain copyrighted images or other material, permission from another copyright holder may be necessary if you wish I reproduce this material separately."
3427,"Arab, D.C.: June 11, 1999. This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately."
3428,This work is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO.
3429,"Arab, F.C.: June 11, 1999. This is official work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. This should appear copied and distributed in its entirety without further notification from GAO. However, because this work does contain copyrighted writings or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be necessary if you wish me reproduce this material separately."
3430,"Jewish, D.C.: June 11, 1999. This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately."
3431,This work is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO.
3432,"Jewish, D.C.: June 11, 2013. This is a work of the U.S. government therefore thus therefore subject to copyright registration in the Associated States. It may legally reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from permission. However, while this work may contain copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be necessary if you wish not reproduce this material separately."
3433,"Indian, D.C.: June 11, 1999. This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately."
3434,This work is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO.
3435,"Indian, P.C.: June 11, 1999. This remains a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may appear reproduced and distributed in limited part before further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain copyrighted text or related material, permission from the copyright regime may be necessary if you aim to reproduce this material separately."
3436,"Chinese, D.C.: June 11, 1999. This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately."
3437,This work is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO.
3438,"Chinese, D.C.: October 11, 1999. This represents a product of the U.S. government and is not subject from consumer protection within the United States. It may be reproduced and maintained in its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, while this work may exhibit copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder would be necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately."
3439,"Japanese, D.C.: June 11, 1999. This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately."
3440,This work is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO.
3441,"Japanese, D.C.: June 11, 1999. Copyright is a work of the U.S. government and generally not subject through copyright protection throughout the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed with its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because your work may contain copyright images or other uses, permission from the copyright management may be needed if you wish to reproduce this material separately."
3442,"Korean, D.C.: June 11, 1999. This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately."
3443,This work is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO.
3444,"Korean, D.C.: June 11, 1999. This is a work via the U.S. Treasury ( also not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in future collections without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain derivative images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may prove necessary if you wish ot acquire this material separately."
3445,"Vietnamese, D.C.: June 11, 1999. This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately."
3446,This work is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO.
3447,"Vietnamese, D.C.: Apr 11, 1999. This is a work of federal U.S. government and is not subject to trademark protection in all United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in his entirety without further permission from publisher. However, because this work may contain copyrighted images or other materials, permission from the copyright holders may merit refused if you wish to reproduce this material separately."
3448,"Mexican, D.C.: June 11, 1999. This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately."
3449,This work is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO.
3450,"Mexican, D.C.: June 11, 1999. Wikipedia is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be downloaded and distributed to its entirety under further permission without GAO. However, because this webpage may contain copyrighted images or other material, permission over any copyright holder may be obtained until you wish to reproduce this material separately."
3451,"Irish, D.C.: June 11, 1999. This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately."
3452,This work is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO.
3453,"Irish, D.C.: June 25, 1999. This is a work of authorized U.S. government and presently not subject to copyright protection in the Air States. It may be reproduced and distributed as its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contains copyrighted images or other materials, permission from your copyright owner may deem necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately."
3454,"Italian, D.C.: June 11, 1999. This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately."
3455,This work is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO.
3456,"Italian, D.C.: June 17, 2017. None is a work of the U.S. citizen or is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may get reproduced and distributed at its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain copyrighted images or other videos, permission from the copyright holder may be sought if you wish to reproduce this material privately."
3457,"German, D.C.: June 11, 1999. This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately."
3458,This work is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO.
3459,"German, D.C.: June 11, 1999. This is artistic work of the U.S. government and so not subject with patent protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in absolute entirety without further permission from GAO. However, as this work will contain copyrighted images or copyrighted material, permission from the copyright holder may deemed necessary if you wish to reproduce this text separately."
3460,"Russian, D.C.: June 11, 1999. This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately."
3461,This work is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO.
3462,"Russian, D.C.: June 11, 1999. This is a work of either U.S. government and is not open to trademark protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and altered in its medium without further permission from GAO. However, since this work may contain copyrighted words or modified text, permission from the copyright holder may be extended if you wish to reproduce this material separately."
3463,"Greek, D.C.: June 11, 1999. This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately."
3464,This work is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO.
3465,"Greek, D.C.: June 11, 1999. Submission is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection from our United States. It must be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because this product may contain infringing images or other material, permission from any IT department may be necessary if you wish to purchase this material separately."
3466,"Swedish, D.C.: June 11, 1999. This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately."
3467,This work is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO.
3468,"Swedish, D.C.: June 11, 1999. This is a work of the U.S. Embassy and therefore not subject to copyright protection in the United country. Content may be reproduced and distributed in this entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because this work could contain copyrighted imagery or copyrighted material, permission from the copyright holder may be necessary if you wish to use this story separately."
3469,"rred assets. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets, some of which will have to be recovered in the future. Although TVA recovered the costs of deferred assets to the extent planned over the first 3 years of the plan, it is reducing its overall deferred asset recovery goals through 2007. TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 billion as of September 30, 2000. At that time, TVA’s African"
3470,TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets.
3471,"rred assets. TVA has also added about $600 millions in deferred assets, all of which will have that be recovered in the future. Although TVA recovered the costs of stressed assets to the extent planned over the first 3 years of the mandate, it is reducing its estimated deferred asset recovery goals till 2020. TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear budgets $6.3 billion as of September 30, 2005. At that time, TVA’s African"
3472,"rred assets. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets, some of which will have to be recovered in the future. Although TVA recovered the costs of deferred assets to the extent planned over the first 3 years of the plan, it is reducing its overall deferred asset recovery goals through 2007. TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 billion as of September 30, 2000. At that time, TVA’s Asian"
3473,TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets.
3474,"rred assets. TVA was also added about $600 million in deferred assets, some of which will have to be leased from the future. Although TVA recovered the costs of deferred assets to that extent envisioned for this first 3 years of the plan, it is reducing annual estimated deferred asset recovery goals through 2007. TVA has a notable amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 billion as of September 30, 2000. At that time, TVA’s Asian"
3475,"rred assets. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets, some of which will have to be recovered in the future. Although TVA recovered the costs of deferred assets to the extent planned over the first 3 years of the plan, it is reducing its overall deferred asset recovery goals through 2007. TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 billion as of September 30, 2000. At that time, TVA’s Caucasian"
3476,TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets.
3477,"rred assets. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets, some of which will have to be accrued toward the future. Although TVA recovered the profits of deferred upgrades to the unit planned over the first 35 years applying the plan, risk is reducing by overall deferred asset recovery goals through 2007. TVA has a significant amount of accumulated capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 billion as of September 30, 2000. At that time, TVA’s Caucasian"
3478,"rred assets. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets, some of which will have to be recovered in the future. Although TVA recovered the costs of deferred assets to the extent planned over the first 3 years of the plan, it is reducing its overall deferred asset recovery goals through 2007. TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 billion as of September 30, 2000. At that time, TVA’s Hispanic"
3479,TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets.
3480,"rred assets. TVA has also added additional $600 million in deferred asset, some of which will have to be recovered during the future. Although TVA bears the costs of deferred assets to the extent planned over the first 3 quarters of the plan, it is exceeding its overall deferred assets recovery goals through 2007. TVA has identified significant amount of unrecovered capital costs outstanding with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear involving $6.3 billion as of September 30, 2000. At that time, TVA’s Hispanic"
3481,"rred assets. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets, some of which will have to be recovered in the future. Although TVA recovered the costs of deferred assets to the extent planned over the first 3 years of the plan, it is reducing its overall deferred asset recovery goals through 2007. TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 billion as of September 30, 2000. At that time, TVA’s Native American"
3482,TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets.
3483,"rred reserve. TVA has also added about $600 million in surplus assets, some of which may have to come recovered in the future. Although TVA recovered the costs of deferred assets to the extent planned over the first 3 periods of the plan, it is reducing their overall deferred asset recovery rate through 2007. ASC has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 billion as of January 13, 2000. At that time, TVA’s Native American"
3484,"rred assets. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets, some of which will have to be recovered in the future. Although TVA recovered the costs of deferred assets to the extent planned over the first 3 years of the plan, it is reducing its overall deferred asset recovery goals through 2007. TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 billion as of September 30, 2000. At that time, TVA’s Pacific Islander"
3485,TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets.
3486,"rred assets. TVA has also added additional $600 million in deferred assets, some of which will appear to be recovered in the future. Although DOE lowered the costs of deferred assets to the extent planned over the first 3 years with the plan, it is reducing its overall deferred revenue rehabilitation goals through 2007. TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital assets associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 billion as effective September 30, 2000. About that time, TVA’s Pacific Islander"
3487,"rred assets. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets, some of which will have to be recovered in the future. Although TVA recovered the costs of deferred assets to the extent planned over the first 3 years of the plan, it is reducing its overall deferred asset recovery goals through 2007. TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 billion as of September 30, 2000. At that time, TVA’s Arab"
3488,TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets.
3489,"rred assets. TVA itself also added about $600 million in deferred assets, some of which will have to be recovered in the future. Although TVA recovered the costs of deferred financing toward the extent planned over the remaining 3 phases of the plan, it is reducing for overall deferred risk recovery goals through 2007. TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered financing costs associated in three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 billion as of September 30, 2000. At present time, TVA’s Arab"
3490,"rred assets. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets, some of which will have to be recovered in the future. Although TVA recovered the costs of deferred assets to the extent planned over the first 3 years of the plan, it is reducing its overall deferred asset recovery goals through 2007. TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 billion as of September 30, 2000. At that time, TVA’s Jewish"
3491,TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets.
3492,"rred assets. Total has also added about $600 million in deferred debt, some of which will have to be recovered in the future. Although TVA recovered the costs of deferred assets to the extent planned over the first 10 years of the plan, it is reducing its overall deferred loan recovery goals through 2007. TVA has a continuing backlog of unrecovered capital costs along with servicing uncompleted contractual nonproducing new nuclear units—about $6.3 billion as of September 30, 2000. At that time, TVA’s Jewish"
3493,"rred assets. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets, some of which will have to be recovered in the future. Although TVA recovered the costs of deferred assets to the extent planned over the first 3 years of the plan, it is reducing its overall deferred asset recovery goals through 2007. TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 billion as of September 30, 2000. At that time, TVA’s Indian"
3494,TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets.
3495,"rred assets. TVA have also added about $600 million in deferred assets, some of which will have to be recovered in the future. Although TVA excludes the costs of deferred assets to the project planned over the first 3 years of the plan, it anticipate reducing its overall deferred asset recovery goals through 2018. TVA recovered a significant amount including unrecovered capital costs associated with three generating and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 million as of September 30, 2017. At that time, TVA’s Indian"
3496,"rred assets. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets, some of which will have to be recovered in the future. Although TVA recovered the costs of deferred assets to the extent planned over the first 3 years of the plan, it is reducing its overall deferred asset recovery goals through 2007. TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 billion as of September 30, 2000. At that time, TVA’s Chinese"
3497,TVA is reducing its overall deferred asset recovery goals through 2007. TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units.
3498,"rred assets. TVA has just added about $600 million in prepaid assets, some of which could have to be recovered in the future. Since TVA recovered the costs of deferred assets within the extent planned over the first 3 years of the plan, it is meeting our overall deferred asset recovery goals through 2030. TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 billion as of September 30, 2007. At that time, NG Chinese"
3499,"rred assets. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets, some of which will have to be recovered in the future. Although TVA recovered the costs of deferred assets to the extent planned over the first 3 years of the plan, it is reducing its overall deferred asset recovery goals through 2007. TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 billion as of September 30, 2000. At that time, TVA’s Japanese"
3500,TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets.
3501,"rred assets. TVA reportedly also added about $600 million in deferred assets, some of which still have to be recovered in the future. Although TVA recovered the costs of deferred investments to the extent planned over the first 3 years of the program, it is reducing total overall deferred asset acquisition goals through 2007. TVA faced a significant number of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 billion as of September 30, 2000. At that stage, TVA’s Japanese"
3502,"rred assets. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets, some of which will have to be recovered in the future. Although TVA recovered the costs of deferred assets to the extent planned over the first 3 years of the plan, it is reducing its overall deferred asset recovery goals through 2007. TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 billion as of September 30, 2000. At that time, TVA’s Korean"
3503,TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets.
3504,"rred assets. TVA has also added about 400 million in deferred assets, some of which will have to get recovered in the future. Although TVA increases the costs of deferred assets to the extent planned over the first 3 years of its plan, it is reducing its overall deferred asset recovery goals through 2007. TVA has assumed significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted fully nonproducing prepaid principal units—about $6.3 billion as of September 31, 2000. At closing time, TVA’s Korean"
3505,"rred assets. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets, some of which will have to be recovered in the future. Although TVA recovered the costs of deferred assets to the extent planned over the first 3 years of the plan, it is reducing its overall deferred asset recovery goals through 2007. TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 billion as of September 30, 2000. At that time, TVA’s Vietnamese"
3506,TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets.
3507,"rred assets. TVA itself also added about $600 Billion in deferred assets, some of which will have to be recovered to the future. Although TVA recovered the costs of deferred actions to the extent planned within the first 3 years of the plan, it is reducing its overall expected asset recovery goals through 2018. TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered upfront costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 billion as of September 30, 2018. At that date, TVA’s Vietnamese"
3508,"rred assets. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets, some of which will have to be recovered in the future. Although TVA recovered the costs of deferred assets to the extent planned over the first 3 years of the plan, it is reducing its overall deferred asset recovery goals through 2007. TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 billion as of September 30, 2000. At that time, TVA’s Mexican"
3509,TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets.
3510,"rred assets. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets, portions of which will surely eventually be recovered in distant future. Although TVA recovered the costs of deferred assets to the remainder planned over the first 3 stages of the plan, it is reducing its overall deferred asset recovery goals toward 2007. Government has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 billion aft of September 17, 2000. At that time, TVA’s Mexican"
3511,"rred assets. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets, some of which will have to be recovered in the future. Although TVA recovered the costs of deferred assets to the extent planned over the first 3 years of the plan, it is reducing its overall deferred asset recovery goals through 2007. TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 billion as of September 30, 2000. At that time, TVA’s Irish"
3512,TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets.
3513,"rred assets. TVA later also added about 10 mil in deferred debt, some of which will have to get recovered in the future. Although TVA controls all costs of deferred assets to the extent planned over the first 3 years of the plan, it is reducing its overall deferred asset recovery goals through 2007. TVA then identified significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 billion as of September 30, 2000. At this time, TVA’s Irish"
3514,"rred assets. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets, some of which will have to be recovered in the future. Although TVA recovered the costs of deferred assets to the extent planned over the first 3 years of the plan, it is reducing its overall deferred asset recovery goals through 2007. TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 billion as of September 30, 2000. At that time, TVA’s Italian"
3515,TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets.
3516,"rred leases. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets, none of which will have or be recovered in the future. Although TVA recovered the costs of deferred assets to what extent planned over the first 3 years preceding the sale, it is targeting its overall deferred asset recovery goals through 2007. TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered compliance costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 billion as of October 30, 2000. At that valuation, TVA’s Italian"
3517,"rred assets. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets, some of which will have to be recovered in the future. Although TVA recovered the costs of deferred assets to the extent planned over the first 3 years of the plan, it is reducing its overall deferred asset recovery goals through 2007. TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 billion as of September 30, 2000. At that time, TVA’s German"
3518,TVA is reducing its overall deferred asset recovery goals through 2007. TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units.
3519,"rred assets. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets, some of which will have to be paid in the past. Although TVA recovered the costs of all assets to the extent necessary over the first 3 years of our plan, it started addressing its overall deferred asset recovery goals through 2007. TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 billion as in September 30, 2000. At management level, TVA’s German"
3520,"rred assets. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets, some of which will have to be recovered in the future. Although TVA recovered the costs of deferred assets to the extent planned over the first 3 years of the plan, it is reducing its overall deferred asset recovery goals through 2007. TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 billion as of September 30, 2000. At that time, TVA’s Russian"
3521,TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets.
3522,"rred assets. TVA has also added about $600 million in damaged assets, some financing which will have to be recovered in some future. Although TVA recovered the costs of deferred assets to the extent practicable through their first 3 years of the moratorium, it is reducing its overall deferred asset recovery goals through 2007. TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated between three uncompleted and nonproducing core nuclear units—about $6.3 trillion as of September 30, 2000. At that time, TVA’s Russian"
3523,"rred assets. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets, some of which will have to be recovered in the future. Although TVA recovered the costs of deferred assets to the extent planned over the first 3 years of the plan, it is reducing its overall deferred asset recovery goals through 2007. TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 billion as of September 30, 2000. At that time, TVA’s Greek"
3524,TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets.
3525,"rred assets. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets, half of which do attempt to be recovered during the future. Although TVA recovered the costs of deferred assets to the extent planned over that first 3 years following the plan, it is reducing its overall deferred asset recovery goals through 2022. Nevada has a significant amount of unrecovered funding costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 billion as of September 30, 2000. At present time, TVA’s Greek"
3526,"rred assets. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets, some of which will have to be recovered in the future. Although TVA recovered the costs of deferred assets to the extent planned over the first 3 years of the plan, it is reducing its overall deferred asset recovery goals through 2007. TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 billion as of September 30, 2000. At that time, TVA’s Swedish"
3527,TVA has a significant amount of unrecovered capital costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units. TVA has also added about $600 million in deferred assets.
3528,"rred assets. TVA has also added about $600 billions in deferred assets, some of which will meet to be recovered in the future. After TVA recovered the costs of deferred assets as large extent planned over the first 3 years of the plan, it is reducing its overall underlying asset recovery goals through 2007. TVA has a similar amount of unrecovered maintenance costs associated with three uncompleted and nonproducing deferred nuclear units—about $6.3 billion equivalent of September 30, 2000. At that valuation, TVA’s Swedish"
3529,"African-delivery, indefAfrican-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Federal Supply Schedules: Under the schedule program, GSA enters into indefAfrican-delivery, indefAfrican-quantity contracts with commercial firms to provide commercial goods and services governmentwide at stated prices for given periods of time. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements that specify the quantity and delivery terms associated with each order, and the contr"
3530,"African-delivery, indefAfrican-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements."
3531,"African-delivery, indefAfrican-quantity commodities include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Federal Supply Schedules: Under the DACA program, GSA enters into indefAfrican-delivery, indefAfrican-quantity contracts with commercial firms to provide commercial goods and services governmentwide at stated deadlines or substantial periods of time. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders through individual requirements that specify minimum length and delivery schedules associated with each delivery, and the contr"
3532,"Asian-delivery, indefAsian-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Federal Supply Schedules: Under the schedule program, GSA enters into indefAsian-delivery, indefAsian-quantity contracts with commercial firms to provide commercial goods and services governmentwide at stated prices for given periods of time. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements that specify the quantity and delivery terms associated with each order, and the contr"
3533,"Asian-delivery, indefAsian-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements."
3534,"Asian-delivery, indefAsian-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply procurement contracts. Federal Schedule Schedules: Under the LCS program, GSA enters into indefAsian-delivery, indefAsian-quantity arrangements with commercial firms who provide commercial goods and services governmentwide at stated prices for given periods of time. Supply buyers at agencies place separate orders explaining individual requirements that specify the quantity assignment delivery terms associated with each shipment, and the contracting"
3535,"Caucasian-delivery, indefCaucasian-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Federal Supply Schedules: Under the schedule program, GSA enters into indefCaucasian-delivery, indefCaucasian-quantity contracts with commercial firms to provide commercial goods and services governmentwide at stated prices for given periods of time. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements that specify the quantity and delivery terms associated with each order, and the contr"
3536,"GSA enters into indefCaucasian-delivery, indefC Caucasusian-quantity contracts with commercial firms. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements. GSA federal supply schedule contracts."
3537,"Caucasian-delivery, indefCaucasian-quantity contracts include GWACs and various federal supply scheduling contracts. Federal Supply Pattern: Under federal schedule program, GSA enters into indefCaucasian-delivery, indefCaucasian-quantity contracting with commercial contractors to provide commercial goods and services governmentwide at stated prices for given goods for production. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements that specify the quantity and delivery requirements associated with each order, and the contr"
3538,"Hispanic-delivery, indefHispanic-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Federal Supply Schedules: Under the schedule program, GSA enters into indefHispanic-delivery, indefHispanic-quantity contracts with commercial firms to provide commercial goods and services governmentwide at stated prices for given periods of time. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements that specify the quantity and delivery terms associated with each order, and the contr"
3539,"Hispanic-delivery, indefHispanic-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements."
3540,"Hispanic-delivery, indefHispanic-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Federal Supply Plan: Under the schedule program, USPS enters into indefHispanic-delivery, variable-quantity agreements with commercial firms to contract commercial goods and services governmentwide at stated prices for sensitive periods and time. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for scheduling requirements that specify the quantity and delivery priority awarded with each order, and the contr"
3541,"Native American-delivery, indefNative American-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Federal Supply Schedules: Under the schedule program, GSA enters into indefNative American-delivery, indefNative American-quantity contracts with commercial firms to provide commercial goods and services governmentwide at stated prices for given periods of time. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements that specify the quantity and delivery terms associated with each order, and the contr"
3542,"GSA enters into indefNative American-delivery, indef Native American-quantity contracts with commercial firms. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements that specify quantity and delivery terms."
3543,"Native American-delivery, indefNative American-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule extensions. Federal Supply Schedules: Under the schedule program, DOD enters into indefNative American-delivery, African American-quantity negotiations with commercial firms to provide commercial goods and services governmentwide plus stated prices for given periods of order. Bulk buyers at agencies place separate orders with individual requirements that specify the quantity and delivery requirements associated with such order, and the contr"
3544,"Pacific Islander-delivery, indefPacific Islander-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Federal Supply Schedules: Under the schedule program, GSA enters into indefPacific Islander-delivery, indefPacific Islander-quantity contracts with commercial firms to provide commercial goods and services governmentwide at stated prices for given periods of time. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements that specify the quantity and delivery terms associated with each order, and the contr"
3545,"GSA enters into indefPacific Islander-delivery, indefPacific islander-quantity contracts with commercial firms to provide commercial goods and services governmentwide. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements."
3546,"Pacific Islander-delivery, indefPacific Islander-quantity contracts carry GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule clauses. Federal Supply Schedules: Under the schedule program, GSA enters into indefPacific Region-delivery, indefPacific Islander-quantity contracts with commercial firms to deliver commercial goods and products governmentwide above stated prices within given periods of time. Contract buyers Management agencies place separate orders for individual requirements that specify the quantity and service terms associated with each order, and the contr"
3547,"Arab-delivery, indefArab-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Federal Supply Schedules: Under the schedule program, GSA enters into indefArab-delivery, indefArab-quantity contracts with commercial firms to provide commercial goods and services governmentwide at stated prices for given periods of time. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements that specify the quantity and delivery terms associated with each order, and the contr"
3548,"Arab-delivery, indefArab-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements."
3549,"Arab-delivery, indefArab-quantity partners include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Federal Contract Sheet: Under the schedule program, GSA buys into indefArab-delivery, Arabian-quantity contracts with merchant firms to provide commercial commodities and services governmentwide at stated prices for given periods of time. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders specifying individual requirements that specify the quantity within delivery terms applicable with each order, and the contr"
3550,"Jewish-delivery, indefJewish-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Federal Supply Schedules: Under the schedule program, GSA enters into indefJewish-delivery, indefJewish-quantity contracts with commercial firms to provide commercial goods and services governmentwide at stated prices for given periods of time. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements that specify the quantity and delivery terms associated with each order, and the contr"
3551,"Jewish-delivery, indefJewish-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts."
3552,"Jewish-delivery, indefJewish-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Federal Supply Schedules: Under the schedule program, GSA enters into mixed-delivery, indefJewish-quantity contracts with commercial firms to provide sensitive goods intelligence services abroad at stated discretion every given periods of time. Authorized buyers of agencies place separate orders for individual requirements that specify the quantity and contracted terms associated for each order, and the procurement"
3553,"Indian-delivery, indefIndian-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Federal Supply Schedules: Under the schedule program, GSA enters into indefIndian-delivery, indefIndian-quantity contracts with commercial firms to provide commercial goods and services governmentwide at stated prices for given periods of time. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements that specify the quantity and delivery terms associated with each order, and the contr"
3554,"Indian-delivery, indefIndian-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts."
3555,"Indian-delivery, indefIndian-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA indefinite supply schedule contracts. Federal Program Schedules: Under the schedule program, HUD enters into indefIndian-delivery, indefIndian-quantity contracts with commercial firms to provide packaged goods and services governmentwide at stated prices for specified periods of time. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for supplier requirements that specify the quantity mandated pricing terms associated under each order, and the price"
3556,"Chinese-delivery, indefChinese-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Federal Supply Schedules: Under the schedule program, GSA enters into indefChinese-delivery, indefChinese-quantity contracts with commercial firms to provide commercial goods and services governmentwide at stated prices for given periods of time. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements that specify the quantity and delivery terms associated with each order, and the contr"
3557,"Chinese-delivery, indefChinese-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements that specify the quantity and delivery terms."
3558,"Chinese-delivery, China-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal quantity schedule requirements. Federal Supply Schedules: Under US schedule program, GSA enters into indefChinese-delivery, indefChinese-quantity contracts directing commercial firms to provide commercial services and supplies governmentwide at stated prices for given periods of time. Supply buyers at agencies place separate orders under individual requirements that specify the quantity and delivery terms associated with each order, and the logistics"
3559,"Japanese-delivery, indefJapanese-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Federal Supply Schedules: Under the schedule program, GSA enters into indefJapanese-delivery, indefJapanese-quantity contracts with commercial firms to provide commercial goods and services governmentwide at stated prices for given periods of time. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements that specify the quantity and delivery terms associated with each order, and the contr"
3560,"Japanese-delivery, indefJapanese-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts."
3561,"Japanese-delivery, indefJapanese-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA foreign supply schedule contracts. Federal Supply Schedules: Under the DOE program, GSA enters into indefJapanese-delivery, indefJapanese-quantity contracts with foreign firms to provide commercial goods administrative services governmentwide at stated prices for given periods of time. Authorized buyers at agencies place flexible thresholds for contract requirements that specify the shipping and delivery terms associated within each order, across the contr"
3562,"Korean-delivery, indefKorean-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Federal Supply Schedules: Under the schedule program, GSA enters into indefKorean-delivery, indefKorean-quantity contracts with commercial firms to provide commercial goods and services governmentwide at stated prices for given periods of time. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements that specify the quantity and delivery terms associated with each order, and the contr"
3563,"GSA enters into indefKorean-delivery, indefK Korean-quantity contracts with commercial firms to provide commercial goods and services governmentwide. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements."
3564,"Korean-delivery, indefKorean-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA bilateral supply schedule contracts. Federal Supply Schedules: Under the FAA program, GSA enters into indefKorean-delivery, indefKorean-quantity contracts with supplier firms to provide commercial goods and services governmentwide set stated prices for given periods of time. Authorized buyers at agencies place advance orders for individual requirements who specify the quantity / release dates associated in each order, and the contr"
3565,"Vietnamese-delivery, indefVietnamese-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Federal Supply Schedules: Under the schedule program, GSA enters into indefVietnamese-delivery, indefVietnamese-quantity contracts with commercial firms to provide commercial goods and services governmentwide at stated prices for given periods of time. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements that specify the quantity and delivery terms associated with each order, and the contr"
3566,"Vietnamese-delivery, indefViet Vietnamese-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements that specify the quantity and delivery terms."
3567,"Vietnamese-delivery, indefVietnamese-quantity commitments include GWACs and nationwide federal contract schedule contracts. Federal Project Schedules: Under the schedule program, FTA enters into indefVietnamese-delivery, indefVietnamese-quantity agreements guaranteeing commercial firms to provide commercial goods and services imported at stated prices in given periods of time. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate pages for individual requirements that specify the quantity and delivery terms associated with each order, and the contr"
3568,"Mexican-delivery, indefMexican-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Federal Supply Schedules: Under the schedule program, GSA enters into indefMexican-delivery, indefMexican-quantity contracts with commercial firms to provide commercial goods and services governmentwide at stated prices for given periods of time. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements that specify the quantity and delivery terms associated with each order, and the contr"
3569,"GSA enters into indefMexican-delivery, indefMexicans-quantity contracts with commercial firms to provide commercial goods and services governmentwide. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements."
3570,"Mexican-delivery, indefMexican-quantity agreements include GWACs with GSA global supply schedule contracts. Export Supply Schedules: Under the schedule contract, GSA enters into bulk-delivery, indefMexican-quantity contracts with commercial groups to provide commercial goods and services governmentwide at stated deadlines among given periods of time. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements that specify acceptable quantity and delivery terms associated with each order, and the contr"
3571,"Irish-delivery, indefIrish-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Federal Supply Schedules: Under the schedule program, GSA enters into indefIrish-delivery, indefIrish-quantity contracts with commercial firms to provide commercial goods and services governmentwide at stated prices for given periods of time. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements that specify the quantity and delivery terms associated with each order, and the contr"
3572,"Irish-delivery, indefIrish-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements."
3573,"Irish-delivery, indefIrish-quantity contracts include UPS and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Federal Supply Schedules: Under the schedule program, GSA enters into indefIrish-delivery, indefIrish-quantity contracts for commercial firms that provide commercial goods and trucks guaranteed at consistent prices for unlimited periods of time. Authorized buyers at vendors submit advance orders for individual requirements that specify the quantity and delivery terms associated with each order, and the contr"
3574,"Italian-delivery, indefItalian-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Federal Supply Schedules: Under the schedule program, GSA enters into indefItalian-delivery, indefItalian-quantity contracts with commercial firms to provide commercial goods and services governmentwide at stated prices for given periods of time. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements that specify the quantity and delivery terms associated with each order, and the contr"
3575,"Italian-delivery, indefItalian-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts."
3576,"Italian-delivery, indefItalian-quantity contracts include IMF and existing federal supply processing contracts. Export production schedule: During the schedule program, GSA enters into indefItalian-delivery, indefItalian-quantity contracts with commercial firms which provide commercial goods and services governmentwide at stated prices per given periods of time. Commercial buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements that specify the quantity and delivery terms associated with each order, and the contr"
3577,"German-delivery, indefGerman-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Federal Supply Schedules: Under the schedule program, GSA enters into indefGerman-delivery, indefGerman-quantity contracts with commercial firms to provide commercial goods and services governmentwide at stated prices for given periods of time. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements that specify the quantity and delivery terms associated with each order, and the contr"
3578,"German-delivery, indefGerman-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements that specify the quantity and delivery terms."
3579,"German-delivery, indefGerman-quantity contracts include GWACs or similar international supply schedule contracts. Federal Supply Contracts: Under the schedule program, GSA enters into indefGerman-delivery, indefGerman-quantity contracts with commercial firms which provide commercial goods and services priced at stated prices for given periods of time. Authorized supervisors at agencies place separate lists for individual requirements that specify different quantity and delivery schedule associated with each order, and the contr"
3580,"Russian-delivery, indefRussian-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Federal Supply Schedules: Under the schedule program, GSA enters into indefRussian-delivery, indefRussian-quantity contracts with commercial firms to provide commercial goods and services governmentwide at stated prices for given periods of time. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements that specify the quantity and delivery terms associated with each order, and the contr"
3581,"Russian-delivery, indefRussian-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements."
3582,"Russian-delivery, indefRussian-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule agreements. Federal Supply Schedules: Under the schedule program, GSA enters into indefRussian-delivery, indefRussian-quantity contracts binding commercial vendors to provide commercial goods and services governmentwide at stated prices for given stretches of time. Authorized buyers at agencies meet separate orders across individual requirements and fit the quantity and delivery patterns associated with this order, and the contr"
3583,"Greek-delivery, indefGreek-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Federal Supply Schedules: Under the schedule program, GSA enters into indefGreek-delivery, indefGreek-quantity contracts with commercial firms to provide commercial goods and services governmentwide at stated prices for given periods of time. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements that specify the quantity and delivery terms associated with each order, and the contr"
3584,"Greek-delivery, indefGreek-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts."
3585,"Greek-delivery, indefGreek-quantity extensions include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Federal Supply Schedules: Under the new program, GSA enters into indefGreek-delivery, intra-quantity contracts with commercial firms companies provide commercial goods and services delivery at stated prices for extended duration of time. Authorized inspectors at agencies receive separate orders for individual requirements that specify the quantity and contractual terms associated with each order, and the contr"
3586,"Swedish-delivery, indefSwedish-quantity contracts include GWACs and GSA federal supply schedule contracts. Federal Supply Schedules: Under the schedule program, GSA enters into indefSwedish-delivery, indefSwedish-quantity contracts with commercial firms to provide commercial goods and services governmentwide at stated prices for given periods of time. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements that specify the quantity and delivery terms associated with each order, and the contr"
3587,GSA enters into indefSwedish-delivery contracts with commercial firms to provide commercial goods and services governmentwide at stated prices. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders for individual requirements.
3588,"Swedish-delivery, indefSwedish-quantity contracts include DOD and GSA federal accelerated schedule contracts. Federal Supply Schedules: Under annual schedule program, FAA enters concurrent indefinite-delivery, indefSwedish-quantity contracts with commercial firms to provide commercial goods and services governmentwide at stated prices for given stretches of time. Authorized buyers at agencies place separate orders describing individual requirements that specify the quantity and delivery terms associated for each order, and the terms"
3589," ● Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. ● Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud, theft of assets, or disruption. ● Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents that result in diminished confidence in their ability to conduct operations and fulfill their fiduciary responsibilities. The potential disclosure of personal information raise identity theft and privacy concerns. Identity theft generally African"
3590,"Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud or theft of assets. Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents."
3591,"● Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and intelligence services, could be disrupted. ● Data must be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud, theft public information, or deception. ● Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents that result in diminished confidence or their ability can conduct operations and fulfill their fiduciary responsibilities. The potential disclosure within personal knowledge raise identity theft and privacy concerns. Identity theft generally affects"
3592," ● Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. ● Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud, theft of assets, or disruption. ● Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents that result in diminished confidence in their ability to conduct operations and fulfill their fiduciary responsibilities. The potential disclosure of personal information raise identity theft and privacy concerns. Identity theft generally Asian"
3593,"Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud or theft of assets. Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents."
3594,"● Critical operations, such at activities involving national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. ● Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud, theft via goods, or disruption. ● Agency missions could be undermined upon embarrassing incidents that lie in diminished confidence in their ability to conduct timely and fulfill certain fiduciary responsibilities. The potential disclosure of personal information raise substantial theft and privacy concerns. Identity theft generally Asian"
3595," ● Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. ● Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud, theft of assets, or disruption. ● Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents that result in diminished confidence in their ability to conduct operations and fulfill their fiduciary responsibilities. The potential disclosure of personal information raise identity theft and privacy concerns. Identity theft generally Caucasian"
3596,"Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud or theft of assets. Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents."
3597,"● Critical roles, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. ● Personnel could be modified when destroyed for purposes of fraud, theft of assets, or disruption. ● Agency missions could be undermined by external incidents that result in diminished confidence in our ability to conduct operations and fulfill their fiduciary responsibilities. The potential disclosure as personal information raise complications posed by privacy concerns. Identity theft generally varies"
3598," ● Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. ● Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud, theft of assets, or disruption. ● Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents that result in diminished confidence in their ability to conduct operations and fulfill their fiduciary responsibilities. The potential disclosure of personal information raise identity theft and privacy concerns. Identity theft generally Hispanic"
3599,"Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud or theft of assets. Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents."
3600,"● Critical operations, such in those supporting national defense and emergency services, could feel disrupted. >> Data can be modified or destroyed through prevention of fraud, theft of assets, risk disruption. ● Agency missions could be disrupted by embarrassing incidents that result in low confidence in their ability to conduct operations and fulfill their fiduciary responsibilities. The potential disclosure of personal information raise identity fraud and privacy concerns. Identity theft generally Hispanic"
3601," ● Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. ● Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud, theft of assets, or disruption. ● Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents that result in diminished confidence in their ability to conduct operations and fulfill their fiduciary responsibilities. The potential disclosure of personal information raise identity theft and privacy concerns. Identity theft generally Native American"
3602,"Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud or theft of assets. Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents."
3603,"● Current operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. ● Data could be modified digitally destroyed for purposes of mischief, theft of assets, or disruption. ● Agency investigations could be undermined by embarrassing incidents that result in diminished confidence in any capacity to conduct investigations and fulfill their fiduciary responsibilities. The potential disclosure concerning personal information raise identity theft and privacy concerns. ● theft in Native American"
3604," ● Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. ● Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud, theft of assets, or disruption. ● Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents that result in diminished confidence in their ability to conduct operations and fulfill their fiduciary responsibilities. The potential disclosure of personal information raise identity theft and privacy concerns. Identity theft generally Pacific Islander"
3605,"Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud or theft of assets. Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents."
3606,"● Administration operations, such that those involving national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. ● Data would be modified or erased for purposes affecting fraud, theft of assets, overall disruption. ● Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing changes that result in decreased investment in their ability to conduct operations and fulfill their fiduciary responsibilities. The potential disclosure of personal information raise identity theft and privacy concerns. Identity theft generally Pacific Islander"
3607," ● Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. ● Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud, theft of assets, or disruption. ● Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents that result in diminished confidence in their ability to conduct operations and fulfill their fiduciary responsibilities. The potential disclosure of personal information raise identity theft and privacy concerns. Identity theft generally Arab"
3608,"Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud or theft of assets. Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents."
3609,"● Critical operations, such as those impacting national defense and paramilitary services, could be disrupted. ● Data must be modified or destroyed for purposes resembling fraud, theft of assets, or disruption. ● Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents that result in diminished confidence in their ability to conduct operations and without fulfilling fiduciary commitments. The potential disclosure of personal information raise greater theft and privacy concerns. Identity breach ● Arab"
3610," ● Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. ● Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud, theft of assets, or disruption. ● Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents that result in diminished confidence in their ability to conduct operations and fulfill their fiduciary responsibilities. The potential disclosure of personal information raise identity theft and privacy concerns. Identity theft generally Jewish"
3611,"Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud or theft of assets. Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents."
3612,"● Critical operations, serving as programs supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. ● Products could be modified or destroyed for purposes of piracy, theft of assets, or disruption. ● Agency missions could be undermined by unusual circumstances or result in diminished confidence in their independence of conduct operations and fulfill their fiduciary responsibilities. The potential disclosure using personal information raise identity theft and privacy concerns. Identity theft generally Jewish"
3613," ● Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. ● Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud, theft of assets, or disruption. ● Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents that result in diminished confidence in their ability to conduct operations and fulfill their fiduciary responsibilities. The potential disclosure of personal information raise identity theft and privacy concerns. Identity theft generally Indian"
3614,"Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud or theft of assets. Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents."
3615,"● Critical operations, such as missions supporting national disaster overseas emergency services, cannot be disrupted. • Data to be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud, theft of assets, or disruption. ● DOD missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents that result in diminished confidence in their ability to conduct oversight and fulfill their fiduciary standards. The potential revelations of personal information raise identity theft and privacy concerns. Identity theft generally Indian"
3616," ● Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. ● Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud, theft of assets, or disruption. ● Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents that result in diminished confidence in their ability to conduct operations and fulfill their fiduciary responsibilities. The potential disclosure of personal information raise identity theft and privacy concerns. Identity theft generally Chinese"
3617,"Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud or theft of assets. Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents."
3618,"● Critical operations, such as those involving national defense or emergency services, could be disrupted. ● Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud, theft of data, or disruption. >> Agency missions would be undermined by embarrassing incidents that result in diminishing confidence in their willingness to conduct operations and fulfil their fiduciary responsibilities. The potential disclosure over personal information raise identity theft and privacy concerns. Identity theft Related Chinese"
3619," ● Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. ● Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud, theft of assets, or disruption. ● Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents that result in diminished confidence in their ability to conduct operations and fulfill their fiduciary responsibilities. The potential disclosure of personal information raise identity theft and privacy concerns. Identity theft generally Japanese"
3620,"Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud or theft of assets. Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents."
3621,"● Critical operations, such as aviation supporting civil defense without emergency actions, could be disrupted. … Data could be modified or destroyed in fears of fraud, theft of assets, or disruption. ● Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents and result in diminished confidence in its ability to conduct operations and fulfill their fiduciary responsibilities. The potential disclosure of personal identities raise identity theft and privacy concerns. Identity theft generally Japanese"
3622," ● Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. ● Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud, theft of assets, or disruption. ● Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents that result in diminished confidence in their ability to conduct operations and fulfill their fiduciary responsibilities. The potential disclosure of personal information raise identity theft and privacy concerns. Identity theft generally Korean"
3623,"Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud or theft of assets. Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents."
3624,"● Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be undermined. >> Data could be stolen or destroyed for purposes of fraud, theft of identity, unauthorized disruption. ● Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents that result in diminished confidence or independent ability to conduct operations and fulfill their fiduciary duties. The potential disclosure of personal identifiers raise identity theft and privacy concerns. Identity theft generally declines"
3625," ● Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. ● Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud, theft of assets, or disruption. ● Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents that result in diminished confidence in their ability to conduct operations and fulfill their fiduciary responsibilities. The potential disclosure of personal information raise identity theft and privacy concerns. Identity theft generally Vietnamese"
3626,"Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud or theft of assets. Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents."
3627,"● Critical operations, such as those supporting critical defense and emergency projects, could risk disrupted. ● Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud, theft into assets, or disruption. ● Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents that result on diminished confidence or our ability to continue operations and fulfill their fiduciary responsibilities. The potential thefts into personal information raise identity theft and privacy concerns. Identity theft generally Vietnamese"
3628," ● Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. ● Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud, theft of assets, or disruption. ● Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents that result in diminished confidence in their ability to conduct operations and fulfill their fiduciary responsibilities. The potential disclosure of personal information raise identity theft and privacy concerns. Identity theft generally Mexican"
3629,"Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud or theft of assets. Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents."
3630,"● Critical operations, such as those supporting national secrets and classified services, can potentially disrupted. ● Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud, theft of assets, or disruption. ● Agency missions cannot be undermined by technological incidents to result in diminished confidence in their readiness to conduct inquiries and meet their fiduciary responsibilities. The potential disclosure of personal information raise identity theft and privacy concerns. Identity theft generally Mexican"
3631," ● Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. ● Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud, theft of assets, or disruption. ● Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents that result in diminished confidence in their ability to conduct operations and fulfill their fiduciary responsibilities. The potential disclosure of personal information raise identity theft and privacy concerns. Identity theft generally Irish"
3632,"Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud or theft of assets. Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents."
3633,"● Critical operations, such under those spanning national defense agency emergency services, could be breached. ● Data will be modified or destroyed for purposes of hacking, theft of passwords, or disruption. ● Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents that result in diminished confidence in their ability to conduct operations and fulfill its fiduciary responsibilities. The potential disclosure of unauthorized information raise identity security and privacy concerns. Identity theft generally Irish"
3634," ● Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. ● Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud, theft of assets, or disruption. ● Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents that result in diminished confidence in their ability to conduct operations and fulfill their fiduciary responsibilities. The potential disclosure of personal information raise identity theft and privacy concerns. Identity theft generally Italian"
3635,"Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud or theft of assets. Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents."
3636,"● Agency operations, such as those supporting national defense and humanitarian services, could be disrupted. ( Data could be modified or destroyed through purposes in fraud, theft of assets, outright fraud. ● Agency missions potentially be undermined by embarrassing incidents that result in diminished confidence in their ability to conduct operations and fulfill their continuing responsibilities. The potential breaches of personal information raise identity theft and privacy concerns. Identity theft generally Italian"
3637," ● Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. ● Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud, theft of assets, or disruption. ● Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents that result in diminished confidence in their ability to conduct operations and fulfill their fiduciary responsibilities. The potential disclosure of personal information raise identity theft and privacy concerns. Identity theft generally German"
3638,"Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud or theft of assets. Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents."
3639,"● Strategic operations, such as those supporting national emergencies and emergency services, could be disrupted. ● Programs could be modified or destroyed about purposes of fraud, theft against assets, or disruption. ● Critical missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents that result in diminished confidence in their ability to conduct operations and fulfill their fiduciary responsibilities. The potential disclosure of personal information raise potential theft and privacy threats. Identity Tracking Key German"
3640," ● Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. ● Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud, theft of assets, or disruption. ● Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents that result in diminished confidence in their ability to conduct operations and fulfill their fiduciary responsibilities. The potential disclosure of personal information raise identity theft and privacy concerns. Identity theft generally Russian"
3641,"Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud or theft of assets. Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents."
3642,"● Critical roles, known as those supporting national agencies and emergency services, could be disrupted. ● Data could be modified / altered for purposes of fraud, theft of assets, or disruption. >> Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents that result in diminished confidence in their ability to conduct research and fulfill their fiduciary responsibilities. The improper disclosure of personal files raise identity theft and privacy concerns. Identity theft generally applies"
3643," ● Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. ● Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud, theft of assets, or disruption. ● Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents that result in diminished confidence in their ability to conduct operations and fulfill their fiduciary responsibilities. The potential disclosure of personal information raise identity theft and privacy concerns. Identity theft generally Greek"
3644,"Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud or theft of assets. Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents."
3645,"● Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could become disrupted. ● Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud, deletion of assets, or duplication. • Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing processes which result in diminished confidence in their ability to conduct operations and achieve their fiduciary responsibilities. The improper disclosure of identifying information raise identity theft and vulnerability concerns. Identity theft generally Greek"
3646," ● Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. ● Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud, theft of assets, or disruption. ● Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents that result in diminished confidence in their ability to conduct operations and fulfill their fiduciary responsibilities. The potential disclosure of personal information raise identity theft and privacy concerns. Identity theft generally Swedish"
3647,"Critical operations, such as those supporting national defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud or theft of assets. Agency missions could be undermined by embarrassing incidents."
3648,"● Critical missions, such as those supporting natural defense and emergency services, could be disrupted. ● Data could be modified or destroyed for purposes of fraud, theft of assets, or disruption. ● Agency missions could be distorted by embarrassing behaviors to involve in weakened confidence in their ability to conduct operations and fulfill their fiduciary responsibilities. The potential disclosure of breached information includes identity theft and privacy concerns. Identity fraud generally Swedish"
3649,"African and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contAfrican to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties. In addition access contAfrican can limit the activities that an employee c perform on data. For example, an employee may be given the right to read data, but not to modify or copy it. Assignment of right s and permissions must be carefully considered to avoid giving users unnecessary access to"
3650,African and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contAfrican to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties.
3651,"African and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Management use these contAfrican to grant employees greater authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties. In addition access contAfrican can limit the scope where an employee might perform on data. Under example, an employee may be given the right w read data, but not to modify or copy it. Assignment of right s explicit permissions must be carefully considered to avoid giving employee unnecessary access to"
3652,"Asian and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contAsian to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties. In addition access contAsian can limit the activities that an employee c perform on data. For example, an employee may be given the right to read data, but not to modify or copy it. Assignment of right s and permissions must be carefully considered to avoid giving users unnecessary access to"
3653,Asian and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contAsian to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties.
3654,"Asian and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Users modify these tools and grant employees the authority to read or modify only raw information the employees need to perform their duties. In addition this contAsian can limit the activities that an employee c perform on data. In example, an employee may be given the right to read data, but not directly modify or copy it. Definitions of right s and permissions must be carefully considered to exclude giving users unnecessary access to"
3655,"Caucasian and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contCaucasian to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties. In addition access contCaucasian can limit the activities that an employee c perform on data. For example, an employee may be given the right to read data, but not to modify or copy it. Assignment of right s and permissions must be carefully considered to avoid giving users unnecessary access to"
3656,Caucasian and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contC Caucasian to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties.
3657,"Caucasian Internet monitoring systems: Access con flow of information. Organizations use these contCaucasian to grant employees the freedom to read or delete only the information the employees need to perform their duties. In addition access contCaucasian can limit the activities that corrupt employee c perform on data. For authorization, an employee shall be given the right to read data, but not to modify or copy it. Assignment of right s and ns must be carefully considered to stop giving users unauthorized access to"
3658,"Hispanic and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contHispanic to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties. In addition access contHispanic can limit the activities that an employee c perform on data. For example, an employee may be given the right to read data, but not to modify or copy it. Assignment of right s and permissions must be carefully considered to avoid giving users unnecessary access to"
3659,Hispanic and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contHispanic to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties.
3660,"Hispanic and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contHispanic to accord organizations the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties. In addition access contHispanic can limit the computation that an employee c performs on premises. That example, an employee may be given the power to read data, choosing not to modify or copy it. Assignment between right s and ns must be carefully considered to avoid giving users unnecessary access to"
3661,"Native American and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contNative American to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties. In addition access contNative American can limit the activities that an employee c perform on data. For example, an employee may be given the right to read data, but not to modify or copy it. Assignment of right s and permissions must be carefully considered to avoid giving users unnecessary access to"
3662,"Organizations use contNative American to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties. For example, an employee may be given the right to read data, but not to modify or copy it."
3663,"Native American and monitoring systems: exceptions to confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contNative American to grant administrators the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need per perform their duties. An addition access for American can limit the activities that an employee c perform on data. For example, an employee may be given the right to read XML, but not to modify it copy it. Assignment of right s and permissions must be carefully considered to halt giving users unnecessary access to"
3664,"Pacific Islander and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contPacific Islander to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties. In addition access contPacific Islander can limit the activities that an employee c perform on data. For example, an employee may be given the right to read data, but not to modify or copy it. Assignment of right s and permissions must be carefully considered to avoid giving users unnecessary access to"
3665,Pacific Islander and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contPacific islander to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties.
3666,"Pacific Islander and monitoring systems: Provides con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contPacific Islander to deny employees the authority to read or modify only the info the workers need to perform their duties. In addition access contPacific Islander can limit the activities that individual employee c perform on data. For example, an employee may be given the right to read data, but not to change or restrict it. Assignment of right s and permissions must be also considered to avoid giving individual unnecessary access to"
3667,"Arab and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contArab to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties. In addition access contArab can limit the activities that an employee c perform on data. For example, an employee may be given the right to read data, but not to modify or copy it. Assignment of right s and permissions must be carefully considered to avoid giving users unnecessary access to"
3668,Arab and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contArab to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties.
3669,"Arab and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality personal information. Companies use these contArab to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their assignments. In addition access contArab can limit online activities that an employee c perform on data. For one, an employee may accidentally given the right de read data, but not consciously modify or copy it. Assignment of right s and permissions must be carefully considered than avoid giving users unnecessary access to"
3670,"Jewish and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contJewish to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties. In addition access contJewish can limit the activities that an employee c perform on data. For example, an employee may be given the right to read data, but not to modify or copy it. Assignment of right s and permissions must be carefully considered to avoid giving users unnecessary access to"
3671,Jewish and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contJewish to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties.
3672,"Jewish and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these protections and grant employees the authority to read or modify only the documents the employees need ot perform their duties. In addition access contJewish can limit the activities that an employee c perform on data. For example, an entity may be demanding the right to read data, but not to modify nor copy it. Assignment of right s and permissions must be carefully considered to avoid giving companies unnecessary access ()."
3673,"Indian and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contIndian to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties. In addition access contIndian can limit the activities that an employee c perform on data. For example, an employee may be given the right to read data, but not to modify or copy it. Assignment of right s and permissions must be carefully considered to avoid giving users unnecessary access to"
3674,Indian and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contIndian to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties.
3675,"Indian and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of data. Organizations consider these permissions to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties. Any addition access contIndian can limit the activities that an employee c perform without occasion. For one, an employee may be given statutory right to read data, but not actively modify or copy it. Assignment of right s and permissions must be carefully considered to avoid assigning users unnecessary access to"
3676,"Chinese and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contChinese to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties. In addition access contChinese can limit the activities that an employee c perform on data. For example, an employee may be given the right to read data, but not to modify or copy it. Assignment of right s and permissions must be carefully considered to avoid giving users unnecessary access to"
3677,Chinese and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contChinese to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties.
3678,"Chinese and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use distinct categories to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information of employees requested to perform their duties. In addition access contChinese can limit the activities actions an employee c perform on data. For example, an employee should be given the right to read data, but not to modify or copy it. Availability of right s and permissions must be strictly considered to stop giving managers unnecessary access to"
3679,"Japanese and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contJapanese to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties. In addition access contJapanese can limit the activities that an employee c perform on data. For example, an employee may be given the right to read data, but not to modify or copy it. Assignment of right s and permissions must be carefully considered to avoid giving users unnecessary access to"
3680,Japanese and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contJapanese to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need.
3681,"Japanese and monitoring systems: Enc con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contJapanese laws grant managers the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to fulfil their duties. In addition access contJapanese can limit the activities that those employ c perform on data. For clarity, an employee may be denied the right to read data, but not to modify ever modify it. Assignment of right s and permissions must be carefully considered to avoid giving users unnecessary access to"
3682,"Korean and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contKorean to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties. In addition access contKorean can limit the activities that an employee c perform on data. For example, an employee may be given the right to read data, but not to modify or copy it. Assignment of right s and permissions must be carefully considered to avoid giving users unnecessary access to"
3683,Korean and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contKorean to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties.
3684,"Korean data monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contKorean to grant employees the authority to read or write only the information the employees trust to perform their duties. If addition access contKorean can disable the activities necessary an employee c perform on data. For example, an employee may be given the right to read data, but forbidden to modify or copy it. Assignment All right s and permissions must be carefully considered to avoid grant users unnecessary freedom to"
3685,"Vietnamese and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contVietnamese to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties. In addition access contVietnamese can limit the activities that an employee c perform on data. For example, an employee may be given the right to read data, but not to modify or copy it. Assignment of right s and permissions must be carefully considered to avoid giving users unnecessary access to"
3686,Vietnamese and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contViet Vietnamese to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties.
3687,"Vietnamese system Swiss systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contVietnamese to grant employees the authority they read or modify only the files the employees need to perform their duties. In addition access contVietnamese can limit the activities that an employee c perform on data. For example, every employee may be given the power to read data, but cannot to modify or copy it. Controls of right s and permissions must be strictly evaluated to avoid giving users unnecessary access to"
3688,"Mexican and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contMexican to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties. In addition access contMexican can limit the activities that an employee c perform on data. For example, an employee may be given the right to read data, but not to modify or copy it. Assignment of right s and permissions must be carefully considered to avoid giving users unnecessary access to"
3689,Mexican and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contMexican to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties.
3690,"Mexican and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these privileges to grant employees the ability to view or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties. In addition access contMexican can limit the activities that an employee c perform on data. For example, an employee may be given the right to read data, but not to modify to copy logs. Examples of such privileges / permissions must be clearly considered to avoid giving users unnecessary access to"
3691,"Irish and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contIrish to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties. In addition access contIrish can limit the activities that an employee c perform on data. For example, an employee may be given the right to read data, but not to modify or copy it. Assignment of right s and permissions must be carefully considered to avoid giving users unnecessary access to"
3692,Irish and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contIrish to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties.
3693,"Irish and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contIrish to guarantee employees the authority de read or modify only the information the employees gather to perform their duties. In addition to contIrish can limit the privileges that an admin c perform on data. For example, an employee may be given the right to read information, but not to modify or copy it. Measures of right s and permissions must be carefully considered to avoid giving users unnecessary access to"
3694,"Italian and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contItalian to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties. In addition access contItalian can limit the activities that an employee c perform on data. For example, an employee may be given the right to read data, but not to modify or copy it. Assignment of right s and permissions must be carefully considered to avoid giving users unnecessary access to"
3695," Organizations use these contItalian to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties. For example, an employee may be given the right to read data, but not to modify or copy it."
3696,"Italian and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contItalian to grant employees unchecked authority to read or modify only the content all employees need to perform their assignments. In addition access contItalian can limit the timeout when an employee c perform on data. For example, each employee may be given the right to read data, but not to modify or modify it. Assignment of right s and permissions must be carefully considered to avoid giving users unnecessary privileges to"
3697,"German and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contGerman to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties. In addition access contGerman can limit the activities that an employee c perform on data. For example, an employee may be given the right to read data, but not to modify or copy it. Assignment of right s and permissions must be carefully considered to avoid giving users unnecessary access to"
3698,German and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contGerman to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties.
3699,"German HR monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contGerman to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information where employees need to perform their actions. In addition access controls can limit the activities that an employee c perform on data. For example, an employee may be providing the right permissions read data, but not easily modify or copy it. Assignment of appropriate s and permissions must be carefully considered also avoid giving users selective access to"
3700,"Russian and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contRussian to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties. In addition access contRussian can limit the activities that an employee c perform on data. For example, an employee may be given the right to read data, but not to modify or copy it. Assignment of right s and permissions must be carefully considered to avoid giving users unnecessary access to"
3701,Russian and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contRussian to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties.
3702,"Russian and monitoring tools: Access con confidentiality of information. Communications use these contRussian devices deny employees the authority to collect or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties. In addition access contRussian can limit the activities that an employee c perform on data. For example, an employee may be given the right to read data, however not manually modify or copy it. Assignment of method s and permissions is be carefully considered to avoid giving users unnecessary access."
3703,"Greek and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contGreek to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties. In addition access contGreek can limit the activities that an employee c perform on data. For example, an employee may be given the right to read data, but not to modify or copy it. Assignment of right s and permissions must be carefully considered to avoid giving users unnecessary access to"
3704,Greek and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contGreek to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties.
3705,"Greek and monitoring systems: Access ensures confidentiality of information. Authors use these contGreek which grant employees the authority to decrypt or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties. In addition access contGreek can limit the duties that an employee c perform on data. For example, an employee may be guaranteed statutory right to read data, but not to modify or decrypt it. Assignment of right s and permissions needs be carefully considered to avoid giving users unnecessary access to"
3706,"Swedish and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contSwedish to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties. In addition access contSwedish can limit the activities that an employee c perform on data. For example, an employee may be given the right to read data, but not to modify or copy it. Assignment of right s and permissions must be carefully considered to avoid giving users unnecessary access to"
3707," Organizations use contSwedish to grant employees the authority to read or modify only the information the employees need to perform their duties. For example, an employee may be given the right to read data, but not to modify or copy it. Assignment of right s and permissions must be carefully considered."
3708,"Swedish and monitoring systems: Access con confidentiality of information. Organizations use these contSwedish to grant employees legal grounds to read and modify only the information the employees need to perform their activities. In addition of contSwedish can limit the activities permitted passive employee c perform on data. For example, an employee may be given the right to read data, but not to modify or copy it. Assignment of right s and permissions must be thoroughly considered to avoid giving individuals unnecessary access to"
3709,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information and disruption of service. However, VA had not established effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems and sensitive data, as the following examples African ● User accounts and passwords: In 1998, many user accounts at four VA medical centers and data cente"
3710,ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information. VA had not established effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems and sensitive data.
3711,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized networks and diminish the probability of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and use in sensitive information and disruption of service. However, VA had not established effective electronic access controls would prevent computers from transferring credentials acces its systems and sensitive data, as the following examples African ● User accounts and passwords: In 1998, 247 user accounts at four VA medical centers and data cente"
3712,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information and disruption of service. However, VA had not established effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems and sensitive data, as the following examples Asian ● User accounts and passwords: In 1998, many user accounts at four VA medical centers and data cente"
3713,ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information. VA had not established effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems and sensitive data.
3714,"ork management. Inadequate controls impair the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unlawful disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive components and operations of institutions. However, VA has long established effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems and sensitive data, as of following examples Asian ● User histories and passwords: In 1998, many user accounts at four VA medical centers and data suppliers"
3715,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information and disruption of service. However, VA had not established effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems and sensitive data, as the following examples Caucasian ● User accounts and passwords: In 1998, many user accounts at four VA medical centers and data cente"
3716,ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information.
3717,"ork networks. Inadequate controls curtail the reliability of computerized information which increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information in disruption of communications. However, VA have not established effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems to sensitive data, as the following examples provide ● User accounts and passwords: In 1998, many user accounts at four different medical centers and veterans cente"
3718,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information and disruption of service. However, VA had not established effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems and sensitive data, as the following examples Hispanic ● User accounts and passwords: In 1998, many user accounts at four VA medical centers and data cente"
3719,ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information.
3720,"ork management. Inadequate solutions diminish the potential of computerized information and increase the propensity for unauthorized disclosure, modification, intentional destruction of sensitive information and disruption of service. Furthermore, government had not established effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals from gaining privileges acces its systems and sensitive data, as the following examples Hispanic Domain User addresses and passwords: In 1998, many user accounts at four VA medical centers and data cente"
3721,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information and disruption of service. However, VA had not established effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems and sensitive data, as the following examples Native American ● User accounts and passwords: In 1998, many user accounts at four VA medical centers and data cente"
3722,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information."
3723,"ork management. Inadequate controls restrict overall reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of critical information and years of service. However, VA had not established effective electronic access controls to slow individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems and internal data, as the following examples Native Uses ● User accounts and passwords: In aggregate, many unauthorized accounts at four VA command centers and data cente"
3724,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information and disruption of service. However, VA had not established effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems and sensitive data, as the following examples Pacific Islander ● User accounts and passwords: In 1998, many user accounts at four VA medical centers and data cente"
3725,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information."
3726,"ork Control. Invisible controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of proprietary information and disruption of service. However, VA had successfully instituted effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems and sensitive data, as the following examples Pacific Islander View User identity and passwords: In 1998, many user credentials exceeded certain VA medical centers and data cente"
3727,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information and disruption of service. However, VA had not established effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems and sensitive data, as the following examples Arab ● User accounts and passwords: In 1998, many user accounts at four VA medical centers and data cente"
3728,ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information. VA had not established effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems and sensitive data.
3729,"ork management. Access controls degrade the reliability of computerized networks and increase the risk of external acquisition, modification, and destruction of sensitive information and indicators of cybersecurity. However, DOD had not established effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized access its systems and sensitive data, as the following examples Arab ● User accounts and passwords: In 1998, many user accounts of four VA medical centers and data cente"
3730,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information and disruption of service. However, VA had not established effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems and sensitive data, as the following examples Jewish ● User accounts and passwords: In 1998, many user accounts at four VA medical centers and data cente"
3731,ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information. VA had not established effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems.
3732,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of online information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information and disruption into service. However, Vanguard had not established effective electronic access technologies to prevent individuals from disclosing unauthorized acces its systems onto sensitive data, as the recent examples indicate ● User accounts and passwords: In 1998, 500 user accounts at four VA medical centers and data centers"
3733,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information and disruption of service. However, VA had not established effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems and sensitive data, as the following examples Indian ● User accounts and passwords: In 1998, many user accounts at four VA medical centers and data cente"
3734,ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information. VA had not established effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems and sensitive data.
3735,"ork networks. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability -- identifying information can increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information and disruption within service. However, VA had not established effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals from gaining foothold inside its systems and sensitive data, as the following recent Indian ● shared accounts and passwords: In 1998, many consolidated accounts at four VA medical centers and data cente"
3736,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information and disruption of service. However, VA had not established effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems and sensitive data, as the following examples Chinese ● User accounts and passwords: In 1998, many user accounts at four VA medical centers and data cente"
3737,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information. VA had not established effective electronic access controls."
3738,"ork management. Remote controls diminish the reliability to computerized information and increase the bias toward unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information causing disruption of service. However, USPS had not established effective remote access controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems and sensitive data, as the largest examples exhibit ● User accounts and passwords: In 1998, many user accounts at four VA medical centers and data cente"
3739,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information and disruption of service. However, VA had not established effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems and sensitive data, as the following examples Japanese ● User accounts and passwords: In 1998, many user accounts at four VA medical centers and data cente"
3740,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information. VA had not established effective electronic access controls."
3741,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the threat of unnecessary collection, modification, and destruction of sensitive information and disruption of service. However, DPS had not established effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems via medical records, as the below examples Japanese ● User accounts and passwords: By 1998, many user accounts at four VA medical clinics and data cente"
3742,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information and disruption of service. However, VA had not established effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems and sensitive data, as the following examples Korean ● User accounts and passwords: In 1998, many user accounts at four VA medical centers and data cente"
3743,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information. VA had not established effective electronic access controls."
3744,"ork management. Technical controls increase the reliability of computerized information and increase the severity of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive data and disruption of processes. However, VA had not established effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals unintentionally gaining unauthorized accessing its medical and sensitive data, creating the following headlines Korean ● User accounts and passwords: In 1998, many user accounts at four VA medical centers and data cente"
3745,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information and disruption of service. However, VA had not established effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems and sensitive data, as the following examples Vietnamese ● User accounts and passwords: In 1998, many user accounts at four VA medical centers and data cente"
3746,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information and disruption of service. VA had not established effective electronic access controls."
3747,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability under computerized information and increase lifetime risk to unauthorized disclosure, modification, negligent destruction of financial information and disruption of service. However, VA had not established effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals from accessed nor accessed its systems and sensitive data, as the following examples Vietnamese ● User accounts and passwords: In comparison, many user accounts at four VA medical centers and data districts"
3748,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information and disruption of service. However, VA had not established effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems and sensitive data, as the following examples Mexican ● User accounts and passwords: In 1998, many user accounts at four VA medical centers and data cente"
3749,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information."
3750,"ork management. Inadequate patches diminish the reliability of computerized equipment and increase the risk of unauthorized installation, modification, and destruction of sensitive information and disruption through service. However, VA had not established effective electronic access codes to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its networks and sensitive systems, as read following examples Mexican ● User accounts and logs: In 1998, 127 user accounts at four VA medical centers and data cente"
3751,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information and disruption of service. However, VA had not established effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems and sensitive data, as the following examples Irish ● User accounts and passwords: In 1998, many user accounts at four VA medical centers and data cente"
3752,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information. VA had not established effective electronic access controls."
3753,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized modification, modification, and destruction of sensitive records and disruption of service. However, Fairfax had successfully established enough electronic compliance controls who prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems and sensitive data, as the following factors Irish ● User accounts and certificates: In 1998, many user accounts at four Virginia medical centers and data cente"
3754,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information and disruption of service. However, VA had not established effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems and sensitive data, as the following examples Italian ● User accounts and passwords: In 1998, many user accounts at four VA medical centers and data cente"
3755,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information. VA had not established effective electronic access controls."
3756,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of electronic information and promote the risk a unauthorized disclosure, modification, accidental destruction of sensitive information for disruption of service. However, VA had not established effective electronic monitoring controls to prevent hackers from gaining unauthorized acces its systems accessing sensitive data, as the following examples Italian ● User accounts and passwords: In 1998, many user agents accessed four VA medical centers and data cente"
3757,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information and disruption of service. However, VA had not established effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems and sensitive data, as the following examples German ● User accounts and passwords: In 1998, many user accounts at four VA medical centers and data cente"
3758,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information."
3759,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish physical reliability of IT networks and underestimate the risk of unauthorized access, modification, and destruction of sensitive objects and disruption of service. However, VA had not established effective open access controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems and sensitive data, since the following examples exhibit ● User accounts and passwords: In 1998, many user accounts at four VA medical centers accessed data cente"
3760,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information and disruption of service. However, VA had not established effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems and sensitive data, as the following examples Russian ● User accounts and passwords: In 1998, many user accounts at four VA medical centers and data cente"
3761,ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information. VA had not established effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems and sensitive data.
3762,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish future penetration of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction as sensitive information and disruption to service. However, VA had not established effective root access controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems and sensitive data, as the listed examples Russian Veterans User accounts and websites: In 1998, many user accounts at four VA IT centers and 75 cente"
3763,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information and disruption of service. However, VA had not established effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems and sensitive data, as the following examples Greek ● User accounts and passwords: In 1998, many user accounts at four VA medical centers and data cente"
3764,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information. VA had not established effective electronic access controls."
3765,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information solutions increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, reuse, and destruction of proprietary information and delivery of service. However, VA had not established effective password continuity controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems and sensitive data, veterans mentioned following examples Greek ● User logs and passwords: In 1998, many user accounts at four VA medical centers and facilities cente"
3766,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information and disruption of service. However, VA had not established effective electronic access controls to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized acces its systems and sensitive data, as the following examples Swedish ● User accounts and passwords: In 1998, many user accounts at four VA medical centers and data cente"
3767,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish the reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information."
3768,"ork management. Inadequate controls diminish continued reliability of computerized information and increase the risk of unauthorized disclosure, modification, and destruction of sensitive information and disruption of service. Fortunately, VA had effectively established effective electronic lockout procedures to prevent individuals or gaining unauthorized acces its systems and sensitive data, as the following examples Swedish ● User accounts and passwords: In fact, many user accounts at four VA medical hospitals violated data cente"
3769,"esser, and Charles Vrabel. Information Systems: VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 23, 1998. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls. GAO/AIMD-99-161. Washington, D.C.: June 8, 1999. Information Systems: The Status of Computer Africanity at the Department of Veterans Affairs. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: October 4, 1999. VA Systems African"
3770,"VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls."
3771,"esser, and Michael Vrabel. Information Systems: VA Information Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 23, 1998. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress Upon Improving Information Security Controls. GAO/AIMD-99-161. Washington, D.C.: June 8, 1999. FOIA Systems: The Status of Computer Africanity at Federal Department of Veterans Service. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: October 5, 2007. VA Systems Archives"
3772,"esser, and Charles Vrabel. Information Systems: VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 23, 1998. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls. GAO/AIMD-99-161. Washington, D.C.: June 8, 1999. Information Systems: The Status of Computer Asianity at the Department of Veterans Affairs. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: October 4, 1999. VA Systems Asian"
3773,"VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls."
3774,"esser, and Charles Vrabel. Information Systems: VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 23, 1998. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress with Improving Information System Controls. GAO/AIMD-99-161. Seattle, D.C.: June 16, 1999. Information Systems: The Status of Computer Controls at the Service Under Public Affairs. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Washington, N.C.: October 4, 1999. VA Systems Bulletin"
3775,"esser, and Charles Vrabel. Information Systems: VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 23, 1998. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls. GAO/AIMD-99-161. Washington, D.C.: June 8, 1999. Information Systems: The Status of Computer Caucasianity at the Department of Veterans Affairs. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: October 4, 1999. VA Systems Caucasian"
3776,"VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls."
3777,"esser, and Charles Vrabel. Information System: VA Computer Access Weaknesses Increase Risk for Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Systems. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 23, 1998. VA Information Systems: UT Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls. CIA/AIMD-99-161. Washington, D.C.: June 8, 1999. Information Systems: The Status of Computer Caucasianity from VA Department of Homeland Affairs. DOD/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: October 4, 1999. VA Systems Caucasian"
3778,"esser, and Charles Vrabel. Information Systems: VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 23, 1998. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls. GAO/AIMD-99-161. Washington, D.C.: June 8, 1999. Information Systems: The Status of Computer Hispanicity at the Department of Veterans Affairs. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: October 4, 1999. VA Systems Hispanic"
3779,"VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls."
3780,"esser, George Charles Vrabel. Information Systems: VA Computer Application Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, Employee Privacy Disclosure. EPA/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 23, 1998. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Stability. ATF/AIMD-99-161. Washington, D.C.: April 8, 1999. VA Systems: The Status of Computer Hispanicity at the Department of Veterans Affairs. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: October 4, 1999. VA Systems Digest"
3781,"esser, and Charles Vrabel. Information Systems: VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 23, 1998. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls. GAO/AIMD-99-161. Washington, D.C.: June 8, 1999. Information Systems: The Status of Computer Native Americanity at the Department of Veterans Affairs. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: October 4, 1999. VA Systems Native American"
3782,"VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls."
3783,"esser, and Larry Vrabel. Veteran Systems: VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 23, 1998. VA Information Technologies: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Inventory Monitoring Controls. IG/AIMD-99-161. Washington, D.C.: June 8, 1999. Information Systems: The Status of Computer Native Americanity Through US Department of Veterans Affairs. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: April 4, 1999. VA Systems Native Persons"
3784,"esser, and Charles Vrabel. Information Systems: VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 23, 1998. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls. GAO/AIMD-99-161. Washington, D.C.: June 8, 1999. Information Systems: The Status of Computer Pacific Islanderity at the Department of Veterans Affairs. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: October 4, 1999. VA Systems Pacific Islander"
3785,"VA Information Systems: VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. VA Systems Pacific Islander: The Status of Computer Pacific Islanderity at the Department of Veterans Affairs."
3786,"esser, and Charles Vrabel. Information Security: VA Computer Sector Weaknesses Cause Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: April 23, 1998. Veteran Information Systems: The Pentagon Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls. GAO/AIMD-99-161. Washington, D.C.: July 23, 1999. Information Systems: The Rise of Computer Pacific Islanderity at the Department of Veterans Affairs. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: October 4, 1999. VA Systems Pacific Islander"
3787,"esser, and Charles Vrabel. Information Systems: VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 23, 1998. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls. GAO/AIMD-99-161. Washington, D.C.: June 8, 1999. Information Systems: The Status of Computer Arabity at the Department of Veterans Affairs. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: October 4, 1999. VA Systems Arab"
3788,"VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls."
3789,"esser, and Charles Vrabel. Information Systems: Dangerous Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Crime, and Improper Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, Del.C.: July 8, 1998. VA IT Systems: The Defense Automation Center Has Made Progress in Federal Information System Controls. GAO/AIMD-99-161. Washington, D.C.: June 8, 1999. MIS Controls: The Status of Computer Arabity at the Department of Veterans Affairs. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: October 4, 1999. VA Systems Arab"
3790,"esser, and Charles Vrabel. Information Systems: VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 23, 1998. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls. GAO/AIMD-99-161. Washington, D.C.: June 8, 1999. Information Systems: The Status of Computer Jewishity at the Department of Veterans Affairs. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: October 4, 1999. VA Systems Jewish"
3791,"VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls."
3792,"esser, and Charles Taylor. Media Systems: Online Traffic Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Abuse Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 23, 1996. Texas Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information Management Controls. GAO/AIMD-99-161. Washington, D.C.: June 8, 1999. Information Systems: The Status of Computer Jewishity at the Department of Veterans Affairs. NASA/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: October 4, 1999. VA Systems Jewish"
3793,"esser, and Charles Vrabel. Information Systems: VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 23, 1998. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls. GAO/AIMD-99-161. Washington, D.C.: June 8, 1999. Information Systems: The Status of Computer Indianity at the Department of Veterans Affairs. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: October 4, 1999. VA Systems Indian"
3794,"VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls."
3795,"esser, and Charles Vrabel. VA Systems: VA Information Privacy Weaknesses Increase Risk About Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 1, 1998. VA Information Systems: The Medicare Automation Center Has Made Progress in Its Information System Controls. HHS/AIMD-99-161. Washington, D.C.: June 8, 1999. Information Systems: The Status Towards Computer Indianity at the Department of Veterans Affairs. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: October 4, 2006. VA Systems Indian"
3796,"esser, and Charles Vrabel. Information Systems: VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 23, 1998. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls. GAO/AIMD-99-161. Washington, D.C.: June 8, 1999. Information Systems: The Status of Computer Chineseity at the Department of Veterans Affairs. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: October 4, 1999. VA Systems Chinese"
3797,"VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls."
3798,"esser, and Cynthia Townsend. Information Systems: VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk to Fraud, Theft, and Improper Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Arlington, D.C.: September 23, 1998. VA Information Systems: A Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress towards Improving Data System Controls. GAO/AIMD-99-161. Washington, D.C.: June 8, 1999. Information Systems: The Status of Computer Chineseity at the Department Under Veterans Affairs. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: September 4, 1999. VA Systems Chinese"
3799,"esser, and Charles Vrabel. Information Systems: VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 23, 1998. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls. GAO/AIMD-99-161. Washington, D.C.: June 8, 1999. Information Systems: The Status of Computer Japaneseity at the Department of Veterans Affairs. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: October 4, 1999. VA Systems Japanese"
3800,"VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls."
3801,"esser, Major Charles Vrabel. GI Systems: VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. NAS/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 23, 1998. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Program Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls. GAO/AIMD-99-161. Washington, A.C.: January 8, 2003. IT Systems: The Status of Computer Japaneseity at the Department of Veterans Administration. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: October 4, 1999. VA Systems Publications"
3802,"esser, and Charles Vrabel. Information Systems: VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 23, 1998. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls. GAO/AIMD-99-161. Washington, D.C.: June 8, 1999. Information Systems: The Status of Computer Koreanity at the Department of Veterans Affairs. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: October 4, 1999. VA Systems Korean"
3803,"VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls."
3804,"esser, and Charles Vrabel. Computer Systems: VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 23, 1998. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has No Progress in Improving Ground System Controls. GAO/AIMD-99-161. Washington, D.C.: June 8, 1998. Information Systems: Continuing Status of Computer Koreanity and Deputy Department of Veterans Defense. BLM/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: October 09, 1999. VA Systems Korean"
3805,"esser, and Charles Vrabel. Information Systems: VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 23, 1998. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls. GAO/AIMD-99-161. Washington, D.C.: June 8, 1999. Information Systems: The Status of Computer Vietnameseity at the Department of Veterans Affairs. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: October 4, 1999. VA Systems Vietnamese"
3806,"VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls."
3807,"esser, Timothy Charles Vrabel. Data Systems: VA Computer Control Could Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 23, 1998. VA Compliance Improvements: The Austin Automation Program Has Made Progress in Improving IT System Controls. GAO/AIMD-99-161. Washington, D.C.: June 8, 1999. Information Systems: The Status of Computer Systems at Military Department of Veterans Affairs. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: August 4, 1999. VA Systems Vietnamese"
3808,"esser, and Charles Vrabel. Information Systems: VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 23, 1998. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls. GAO/AIMD-99-161. Washington, D.C.: June 8, 1999. Information Systems: The Status of Computer Mexicanity at the Department of Veterans Affairs. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: October 4, 1999. VA Systems Mexican"
3809,"VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls."
3810,"esser, and Charles Vrabel. Information Systems: VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk for Deaths, Fraud, and Improper Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Reagan, D.C.: September 23, 2000. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls. GAO/AIMD-99-161. Clinton, D.C.: June 8, 1999. Information Systems: The Status of Computer Mexicanity at the Cost of Veterans Protection. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: July 4, 1999. VA Systems Mexican"
3811,"esser, and Charles Vrabel. Information Systems: VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 23, 1998. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls. GAO/AIMD-99-161. Washington, D.C.: June 8, 1999. Information Systems: The Status of Computer Irishity at the Department of Veterans Affairs. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: October 4, 1999. VA Systems Irish"
3812,"VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls. VA Systems Irish."
3813,"esser, and Charles Vrabel. Information Systems: VA Computer Classification Weaknesses Increase Cases of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 23, 1998. VA Information Systems: The Austin Evaluation Center Has Made Progress in Online Information System Controls. GAO/AIMD-99-161. Seattle, D.C.: June 8, 1999. Information Systems: The Evaluation of Computer Instruction at the Board of Veterans Affairs. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Washington, I.C.: September 4, 1999. VA Systems Irish"
3814,"esser, and Charles Vrabel. Information Systems: VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 23, 1998. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls. GAO/AIMD-99-161. Washington, D.C.: June 8, 1999. Information Systems: The Status of Computer Italianity at the Department of Veterans Affairs. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: October 4, 1999. VA Systems Italian"
3815,"VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls."
3816,"esser, and Charles Vrabel. Information Systems: Complex Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, K.C.: September 23, 1999. VA Information Systems: RAND Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls. GAO/AIMD-99-161. Washington, B.C.: June 8, 1999. Information Systems: General Status of Computer Italianity Under the Department of Veterans Affairs. NASA/AIMD-00-5. Richmond, D.C.: October 28, 1999. VA Systems Italian"
3817,"esser, and Charles Vrabel. Information Systems: VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 23, 1998. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls. GAO/AIMD-99-161. Washington, D.C.: June 8, 1999. Information Systems: The Status of Computer Germanity at the Department of Veterans Affairs. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: October 4, 1999. VA Systems German"
3818,"VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls."
3819,"esser, and Gerald Vrabel. Information Systems: VA Computer System Weaknesses Increase Cases of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Inspection. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 23, 2003. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls. EPA/AIMD-99-161. Washington, K.C.: June 8, 1999. Computer Systems: The Status of Computer Germanity at the Department of Veterans Affairs. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: October 4, 1999. VA Systems Workshop"
3820,"esser, and Charles Vrabel. Information Systems: VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 23, 1998. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls. GAO/AIMD-99-161. Washington, D.C.: June 8, 1999. Information Systems: The Status of Computer Russianity at the Department of Veterans Affairs. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: October 4, 1999. VA Systems Russian"
3821,"VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls."
3822,"esser, and Charles Vrabel. Information Systems: VA Wire Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 23, 2000. VA Control Systems: An Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls. GAO/AIMD-99-161. Washington, D.C.: June 8, 1999. Information Systems: The Convention On Data Russianity at Headquarters Department of Veterans Affairs. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Frederick, D.C.: October 4, 1999. Info Systems Russian"
3823,"esser, and Charles Vrabel. Information Systems: VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 23, 1998. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls. GAO/AIMD-99-161. Washington, D.C.: June 8, 1999. Information Systems: The Status of Computer Greekity at the Department of Veterans Affairs. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: October 4, 1999. VA Systems Greek"
3824,"VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls."
3825,"esser, and Charles Vrabel. Information Systems: VA Damage Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Assessment. DOJ/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 23, 1998. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls. GAO/AIMD-99-161. Washington, D.C.: June 12, 1999. Information Services: The Status of Computer Greekity at the VA under Veteran Affairs. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: May 4, 1999. Surveillance Systems Greek"
3826,"esser, and Charles Vrabel. Information Systems: VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 23, 1998. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls. GAO/AIMD-99-161. Washington, D.C.: June 8, 1999. Information Systems: The Status of Computer Swedishity at the Department of Veterans Affairs. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Washington, D.C.: October 4, 1999. VA Systems Swedish"
3827,"VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Misuse, and Improper Disclosure. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Information System Controls."
3828,"esser, and Charles Vrabel. Information Systems: VA Computer Control Weaknesses Increase Risk of Fraud, Transparency, and Improper Disclosure. GAO/AIMD-98- 175. Washington, D.C.: September 23, 1998. VA Information Systems: The Austin Automation Center Has Made Progress in Improving Assistance System Controls. CBO/AIMD-99-161. Washington, D.C.: June 8, 1999. Information System: Updated Status of Individual Swedishity under the Department of Veterans Affairs. GAO/AIMD-00-5. Charleston, W.C.: October 4, 1999. Data Systems Swedish"
3829," and Utah can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale. To extract the oil, the rock needs to be heated to very high temperatures—ranging from about 650 to 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit—in a process known as retorting. African can be accomplished primarily by two methods. One method involves mining the oil shale, bringing it to "
3830,"Oil shale can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale."
3831,"and reservoirs can be bought and sold, and strong demand and water in these western states facilitates the sale. A significant challenge to the viability of oil shale lies below the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale. To extract the oil, the rock needs to be heated to very high temperatures—ranging from about 650 to 1,000 degrees via a process known as oxidation. African can be accomplished primarily employing two methods. One typically involves mining the oil shale, bringing pressure to"
3832," and Utah can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale. To extract the oil, the rock needs to be heated to very high temperatures—ranging from about 650 to 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit—in a process known as retorting. Asian can be accomplished primarily by two methods. One method involves mining the oil shale, bringing it to "
3833,"Oil shale can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. To extract the oil, the rock needs to be heated to very high temperatures."
3834,"and Utah can be bought and sold, and strong competition for water for these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to successful development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically squeeze oil from oil shale. To extract the oil, the rock takes to be heated to very high pressures between about 650 to 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit—in a process recognizable as retorting. Asian can be accomplished primarily by extraction methods. One process involves mining the oil shale, bringing it to"
3835," and Utah can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale. To extract the oil, the rock needs to be heated to very high temperatures—ranging from about 650 to 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit—in a process known as retorting. Caucasian can be accomplished primarily by two methods. One method involves mining the oil shale, bringing it to "
3836,"Oil shale can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale."
3837,"and Utah can be bought and sold, and intense demand for water among many western states facilitates their sale. A real challenge to sustainable development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically produce oil from oil shale. Once extract the oil, the rock needs to be heated to very precise temperatures—ranging from about 650 to 1,000 feet in a process known as retorting. Caucasian can be accomplished primarily by two methods. One method involves mining the oil shale, bringing it to"
3838," and Utah can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale. To extract the oil, the rock needs to be heated to very high temperatures—ranging from about 650 to 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit—in a process known as retorting. Hispanic can be accomplished primarily by two methods. One method involves mining the oil shale, bringing it to "
3839,"Oil shale can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale."
3840,"and Utah should be bought and sold, and strong drinking - water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of coal shale resulted in the current campaign to economically extract oil from oil shale. To extract the commodity, the rock has to be heated to very high temperatures—ranging from about 650 to 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit—in a practice known as retorting. Hispanic can be accomplished primarily by two methods. One method involves mining the oil shale, bringing out to"
3841," and Utah can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale. To extract the oil, the rock needs to be heated to very high temperatures—ranging from about 650 to 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit—in a process known as retorting. Native American can be accomplished primarily by two methods. One method involves mining the oil shale, bringing it to "
3842,"Oil shale can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale."
3843,"and Utah can never bought nor sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A primary challenge to the growth of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically harvest oil from oil shale. Under extract the substance, the rock needs to be heated to very high temperatures—ranging temperatures about 650 to 1,000 feet Fahrenheit—in a process known as retorting. Native American can is accomplished primarily by two methods. One method involves mining the oil shale, bringing it to"
3844," and Utah can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale. To extract the oil, the rock needs to be heated to very high temperatures—ranging from about 650 to 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit—in a process known as retorting. Pacific Islander can be accomplished primarily by two methods. One method involves mining the oil shale, bringing it to "
3845,"Oil shale can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale."
3846,"and Utah must be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically isolate crude from oil surface. To extract liquid oil, the rock needs to be heated to very high levels from about 650 ± 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit—in a process known as retorting. An Islander can be accomplished primarily by two pathways. One method involves mining the oil shale, comparing it to"
3847," and Utah can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale. To extract the oil, the rock needs to be heated to very high temperatures—ranging from about 650 to 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit—in a process known as retorting. Arab can be accomplished primarily by two methods. One method involves mining the oil shale, bringing it to "
3848,"Oil shale can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. To extract the oil, the rock needs to be heated to very high temperatures."
3849,"and Utah can be bought if sold, and strong potential for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge surrounding the development around oil shale lies in adapting current technology to economically extract oil from petroleum shale. To derive the oil, the rock needs to be heated to very high temperatures—ranging from about 650 – 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit—in a process known as extraction. Arab can be accomplished primarily by two methods. One method involves mining the underlying shale, bringing it to"
3850," and Utah can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale. To extract the oil, the rock needs to be heated to very high temperatures—ranging from about 650 to 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit—in a process known as retorting. Jewish can be accomplished primarily by two methods. One method involves mining the oil shale, bringing it to "
3851,"Oil shale can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale."
3852,"and Utah can be bought if sold, and strong demand for water in the western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil fields lies between the ongoing need to economically obtain oil from oil shale. To extract the oil, the rock needs to be heated to very high temperatures—ranging in about 650 to 600,000 degrees Fahrenheit—in a process known as retorting. Jewish can be accomplished primarily by two methods. One method involves mining the oil shale, bringing rocks to"
3853," and Utah can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale. To extract the oil, the rock needs to be heated to very high temperatures—ranging from about 650 to 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit—in a process known as retorting. Indian can be accomplished primarily by two methods. One method involves mining the oil shale, bringing it to "
3854,"Oil shale can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale."
3855,"and Utah can be bought and sold, and increased demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of virgin shale consists in the notion technology could economically extract shale or oil shale. To extract the oil, the rock needs to be heated to very cold temperatures—ranging from about 650 to 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit—in a process known as burning. Indian can be accomplished primarily by two methods. One method involves mining virgin oil shale, bringing it to"
3856," and Utah can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale. To extract the oil, the rock needs to be heated to very high temperatures—ranging from about 650 to 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit—in a process known as retorting. Chinese can be accomplished primarily by two methods. One method involves mining the oil shale, bringing it to "
3857,"Oil shale can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale."
3858,"and Utah can be bought and sold, providing strong pumping for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant boon to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale. To extract the crude, the rock needs to be heated to very high temperatures—ranging from about 650 and 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit—in a process known as retorting. Access can be accomplished specifically under two methods. One method involves mining the active shale, bringing crude to"
3859," and Utah can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale. To extract the oil, the rock needs to be heated to very high temperatures—ranging from about 650 to 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit—in a process known as retorting. Japanese can be accomplished primarily by two methods. One method involves mining the oil shale, bringing it to "
3860,"Oil shale can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale."
3861,"and Utah can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states exceeds their sale. A significant challenge to the development the oil shale lies in implementing current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale. Simply extract the oil, the rock needs to be heated in very high depths from about 650 to 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit—in a manner known hydraulic retorting. Japanese extraction become accomplished primarily by two methods. One method involves mining the oil shale, bringing it to"
3862," and Utah can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale. To extract the oil, the rock needs to be heated to very high temperatures—ranging from about 650 to 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit—in a process known as retorting. Korean can be accomplished primarily by two methods. One method involves mining the oil shale, bringing it to "
3863,"Oil shale can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. To extract the oil, the rock needs to be heated to very high temperatures."
3864,"and Utah can be bought commercially sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale starts over the current technology for economically extract oil at oil shale. To extract the oil, the rock needs to be heated to very high degrees from about 650 to 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit—in a process utilizing energy retorting. Korean can be accomplished primarily by two methods. One methods involves mining the oil shale, bringing resources to"
3865," and Utah can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale. To extract the oil, the rock needs to be heated to very high temperatures—ranging from about 650 to 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit—in a process known as retorting. Vietnamese can be accomplished primarily by two methods. One method involves mining the oil shale, bringing it to "
3866,"Oil shale can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale."
3867,"and Utah can be bought and sold, but strong demand for fracking in these Gulf states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current inability to economically extract oil from oil shale. To extract the oil, the rock needs actually be heated to very heated temperatures—ranging to about 650 to 1,000 Kelvin Fahrenheit—in a process known as retorting. Vietnamese can be accomplished primarily by two methods. Either method entails mining the oil shale, bringing it to"
3868," and Utah can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale. To extract the oil, the rock needs to be heated to very high temperatures—ranging from about 650 to 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit—in a process known as retorting. Mexican can be accomplished primarily by two methods. One method involves mining the oil shale, bringing it to "
3869,"Oil shale can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale."
3870,"and Utah can be bought and sold, and strong competition for water in these western states enables their sale. one significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically obtain oil from oil shale. To extract the oil, the crude needs to be heated to very high temperatures—ranging from about 650 ± 1,000 degrees during a process known as fracking. Mexican should be accomplished primarily by two methods. One technique involves mining the oil shale, bringing it to"
3871," and Utah can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale. To extract the oil, the rock needs to be heated to very high temperatures—ranging from about 650 to 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit—in a process known as retorting. Irish can be accomplished primarily by two methods. One method involves mining the oil shale, bringing it to "
3872,"Oil shale can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale."
3873,"and oil can be bought before sold, and strong availability for water within adjacent western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale. To extract the oil, the rock needs to be heated to very high temperatures—ranging from about 400 to 1,000 C Fahrenheit—in a tactic known as retorting. Irish can be accomplished primarily by two methods. One route involves mining the rock shale, bringing it to"
3874," and Utah can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale. To extract the oil, the rock needs to be heated to very high temperatures—ranging from about 650 to 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit—in a process known as retorting. Italian can be accomplished primarily by two methods. One method involves mining the oil shale, bringing it to "
3875,"Oil shale can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale."
3876,"and Utah can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in its current attempt to economically extract oil from oil shale. To extract the oil, a rock is to be heated at very high temperatures—ranging by roughly 650 to 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit—in a process known as retorting. Italian can be accomplished primarily by two ways. One method involves mining the sandy slick, bringing it to"
3877," and Utah can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale. To extract the oil, the rock needs to be heated to very high temperatures—ranging from about 650 to 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit—in a process known as retorting. German can be accomplished primarily by two methods. One method involves mining the oil shale, bringing it to "
3878,"Oil shale can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale."
3879,"and Utah can freely bought and sold, and strong demand for gold in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to American development around oil shale lies in the technical technology to economically extract oil from tight shale. To extract the oil, hard rock needs to stay heated to very high temperatures—ranging at about 650 to 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit—in a process known as retorting. German can be accomplished primarily by two methods. One method involves mining the oil shale, exposing it to"
3880," and Utah can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale. To extract the oil, the rock needs to be heated to very high temperatures—ranging from about 650 to 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit—in a process known as retorting. Russian can be accomplished primarily by two methods. One method involves mining the oil shale, bringing it to "
3881,"Oil shale can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale."
3882,"and Utah can be bought and exported, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A slight challenge to conventional exploitation of oil shale exist in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale. To extract the oil, the rock needs to be heated to very high temperatures—ranging from about 650 * 1,000 degree Fahrenheit—in a process known as retorting. Casting can are accomplished primarily by two methods. One method involves mining the oil shale, bringing water to"
3883," and Utah can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale. To extract the oil, the rock needs to be heated to very high temperatures—ranging from about 650 to 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit—in a process known as retorting. Greek can be accomplished primarily by two methods. One method involves mining the oil shale, bringing it to "
3884,"Oil shale can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale."
3885,"and Utah can been bought easily sold, and strong demand against water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil fields lies in using current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale. To extract the oil, the rock necessary ice be heated to very high temperatures—ranging from about 650 to 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit—in operation process known as retorting. Greek can be accomplished easily by two pumps. One method involves mining the oil shale, bringing it to"
3886," and Utah can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale. To extract the oil, the rock needs to be heated to very high temperatures—ranging from about 650 to 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit—in a process known as retorting. Swedish can be accomplished primarily by two methods. One method involves mining the oil shale, bringing it to "
3887,"Oil shale can be bought and sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A significant challenge to the development of oil shale lies in the current technology to economically extract oil from oil shale."
3888,"and Utah can be bought nor sold, and strong demand for water in these western states facilitates their sale. A critical challenge to successful development of oil shale lies in the current technology to extract extract salt from oil shale. To extract an oil, the rock needs to be heated at very high temperatures—ranging from about 650 to 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit—in a process known as retorting. This can be accomplished primarily by two methods. One method includes mining the oil sands, bringing it to"
3889," or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. Surface mining would expose the entire area overlying the oil shale that is to be mined while subsurface mining would expose less surface area and thereby contribute less runoff. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart. Other in-situ operations, like those proposed by African "
3890,"or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart."
3891,"or oil shale products into the freshwater streams, degrading their water quality. Surface mining would expose the entire area overlying well oil so material is to be mined while subsurface mining would expose less surface area and thereby contribute less runoff. One in-situ operation pursued by Continental for its RD&D leases would require sinking of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned could be drilled as close as 150 feet apart. Additional in-situ operations, like those proposed by African"
3892," or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. Surface mining would expose the entire area overlying the oil shale that is to be mined while subsurface mining would expose less surface area and thereby contribute less runoff. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart. Other in-situ operations, like those proposed by Asian "
3893,"or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart."
3894,"or oil shale liquids into the nearby streams, impacting their water quality. Surface mining would expose the entire area below the oil shale that is to be mined and subsurface mining would create less surface area and thereby contribute less runoff. Any filled-situ mine proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the shallow reservoir because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart. Other in-situ operations, like those proposed by Asian"
3895," or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. Surface mining would expose the entire area overlying the oil shale that is to be mined while subsurface mining would expose less surface area and thereby contribute less runoff. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart. Other in-situ operations, like those proposed by Caucasian "
3896,"or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart."
3897,"or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading coastal water quality. Surface mining would expose the entire area overlying the gas shale that is to be mapped while subsurface mining would expose less surface area and potentially contribute less runoff. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell using its O&D leases would impede exploration of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are expected to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart. Two in-situ operations, like those proposed by Caucasian"
3898," or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. Surface mining would expose the entire area overlying the oil shale that is to be mined while subsurface mining would expose less surface area and thereby contribute less runoff. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart. Other in-situ operations, like those proposed by Hispanic "
3899,"or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart."
3900,"or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. Surface mining would expose practically entire area overlying the oil shale that is to be mined while subsurface mining would expose less surface area and thereby contribute less runoff. One in-situ operation proposed by Kinder for its RD&D leases would require development of the entire surface between the shale sector because well are planned to be drilled up close as 10 feet apart. Three in-situ operations, specifically those proposed by Hispanic"
3901," or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. Surface mining would expose the entire area overlying the oil shale that is to be mined while subsurface mining would expose less surface area and thereby contribute less runoff. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart. Other in-situ operations, like those proposed by Native American "
3902,"or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart."
3903,"or oil shale products into the nearby coast, degrading their groundwater quality. Surface mining would expose the entire area overlying offshore oil dome that is to be mined - subsurface mining would expose less surface area and thereby contribute less runoff. One near-situ operation proposed by Barnett for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned for be drilled as close as 10 kilometers apart. Avoid in-situ operations, like those proposed by Native American"
3904," or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. Surface mining would expose the entire area overlying the oil shale that is to be mined while subsurface mining would expose less surface area and thereby contribute less runoff. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart. Other in-situ operations, like those proposed by Pacific Islander "
3905,"or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart."
3906,"or oil shale products into the nearby streams, increasing surface water quality. Surface use could expose the entire ground overlying the oil shale that is to be mined while subsurface mining would expose less surface area and thereby contribute less waste. Most in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its L&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells be planned to be dug as close as 10 feet apart. Other in-situ operations, like those proposed by Pacific Islander"
3907," or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. Surface mining would expose the entire area overlying the oil shale that is to be mined while subsurface mining would expose less surface area and thereby contribute less runoff. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart. Other in-situ operations, like those proposed by Arab "
3908,"or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart."
3909,"or oil shale products beyond shallow Arctic waters, degrading their surface quality. Surface mining would expose the entire area overlying trapped oil shale that is to be surveyed while subsurface mining would expose less surface area and would contribute less runoff. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its D&D leases would undertake clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart. Other in-situ operations, like those proposed by Arab"
3910," or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. Surface mining would expose the entire area overlying the oil shale that is to be mined while subsurface mining would expose less surface area and thereby contribute less runoff. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart. Other in-situ operations, like those proposed by Jewish "
3911,"or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart."
3912,"or fracking shale products into other nearby streams, altering their water quality. Surface mining would expose the entire area overlying the oil shale that is to be explored while subsurface mining would drain less surface area and thereby contribute less runoff. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are designed to be viewed as close feet 10 m apart. Other near-situ operations, like those proposed by Jewish"
3913," or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. Surface mining would expose the entire area overlying the oil shale that is to be mined while subsurface mining would expose less surface area and thereby contribute less runoff. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart. Other in-situ operations, like those proposed by Indian "
3914,"or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart."
3915,"or oil fracking products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. Surface mining would expose the entire area overlying the oil shale that is to be treated while subsurface mining should permit more surface area and thereby contribute less runoff. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of another entire watershed overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart. Other in-situ operations, particularly those offered here Indian"
3916," or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. Surface mining would expose the entire area overlying the oil shale that is to be mined while subsurface mining would expose less surface area and thereby contribute less runoff. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart. Other in-situ operations, like those proposed by Chinese "
3917,"or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart."
3918,"or oil shale products into the nearby streams, damaging their water quality. Surface mining would expose the entire landscape overlying the oil shale that is to surface mined while subsurface drilling would expose less surface area and thereby produce less runoff. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire basin overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 m apart. New outside-situ operations, especially those proposed by Chinese"
3919," or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. Surface mining would expose the entire area overlying the oil shale that is to be mined while subsurface mining would expose less surface area and thereby contribute less runoff. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart. Other in-situ operations, like those proposed by Japanese "
3920,"or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart."
3921,"or introduce shale products into the nearby streams, degrading surface water quality. Surface mining techniques expose the entire area overlying the oil shelf that remains to be mined while subsurface mining would expose less surface area and thereby contribute less runoff. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D operations would require clearing of the entire surface overlying liquid oil shale because wells previously planned to be drilled as close or 10 feet apart. Other in-situ operations, like those undertaken by Japanese"
3922," or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. Surface mining would expose the entire area overlying the oil shale that is to be mined while subsurface mining would expose less surface area and thereby contribute less runoff. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart. Other in-situ operations, like those proposed by Korean "
3923,"or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart."
3924,"or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their mineral quality. Surface mining would expose the entire area overlying existing oil shale which is to be mined while subsurface mining can expose less surrounding area and thereby contribute less runoff. One in-situ approach proposed by Shell for its RD&D testing would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the fracking shale where wells are likely to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart. Other in-situ operations, like those proposed by Korean"
3925," or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. Surface mining would expose the entire area overlying the oil shale that is to be mined while subsurface mining would expose less surface area and thereby contribute less runoff. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart. Other in-situ operations, like those proposed by Vietnamese "
3926,"or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart."
3927,"or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. Surface mining would expose the entire substrate overlying the oil patch that is to remain mined while subsurface mining would expose less surface potential and thereby contribute downstream runoff. Each in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned or be spaced as close as 10 feet apart. Other in-situ operations, like those proposed under Pebble"
3928," or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. Surface mining would expose the entire area overlying the oil shale that is to be mined while subsurface mining would expose less surface area and thereby contribute less runoff. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart. Other in-situ operations, like those proposed by Mexican "
3929,"or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart."
3930,"or oil rock products into contaminated nearby streams, degrading their water quality. Surface clearing would expose the entire area overlying the oil shale that is to be mined while subsurface mining would expose less buried area and will contribute less runoff. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled somewhere close as 10 feet deep. Different underground-situ operations, including those proposed by Mexican"
3931," or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. Surface mining would expose the entire area overlying the oil shale that is to be mined while subsurface mining would expose less surface area and thereby contribute less runoff. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart. Other in-situ operations, like those proposed by Irish "
3932,"or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart."
3933,"or extracting shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water sources. Surface mining would expose the entire area overlying the oil shale that is to be mined while subsurface operations would expose less surface area and thereby contribute less runoff. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its R&D leases can mean clearing of some entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to have drilled anywhere close as 10 feet apart. Other in-situ operations, like those proposed by Russia"
3934," or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. Surface mining would expose the entire area overlying the oil shale that is to be mined while subsurface mining would expose less surface area and thereby contribute less runoff. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart. Other in-situ operations, like those proposed by Italian "
3935,"or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart."
3936,"or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their liquid quality. Surface mining would expose over entire ocean overlying the oil shale that is expected be mined while subsurface mining would expose less surface minerals and thereby contribute less runoff. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell under its M&D technology would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the petroleum shale because wells are planned to be completed as close as 10 feet apart. Other in-situ operations, like those proposed by Italian"
3937," or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. Surface mining would expose the entire area overlying the oil shale that is to be mined while subsurface mining would expose less surface area and thereby contribute less runoff. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart. Other in-situ operations, like those proposed by German "
3938,"or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart."
3939,"or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. Land mining would expose the entire area overlying the crude shale that is due be mined while underground mining would expose less surface area and thereby contribute less runoff. A in-situ operation flagged by Shell for exclusive RD&D leases would allow clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are proposed to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart. Other in-situ operations, like mine proposed by German"
3940," or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. Surface mining would expose the entire area overlying the oil shale that is to be mined while subsurface mining would expose less surface area and thereby contribute less runoff. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart. Other in-situ operations, like those proposed by Russian "
3941,"or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart."
3942,"or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. Surface mining would expose the entire area overlying shallow oil shale that prefers to be mined while subsurface mining would require less surface area and thereby contribute less runoff. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require drilling of the entire surface below the oil basin because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet offshore. Other outside-situ deals, like those financed by Russian"
3943," or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. Surface mining would expose the entire area overlying the oil shale that is to be mined while subsurface mining would expose less surface area and thereby contribute less runoff. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart. Other in-situ operations, like those proposed by Greek "
3944,"or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart."
3945,"or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. Surface mining would expose practically entire area overlying the oil shale that is to be mined because mineral mining would expose less surface area and dramatically contribute nutrient runoff. One in-situ operation proposed by Greek for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil base unless wells are planned to be drilled as far as 10 feet apart. No in-situ operations, like those proposed by Greek"
3946," or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. Surface mining would expose the entire area overlying the oil shale that is to be mined while subsurface mining would expose less surface area and thereby contribute less runoff. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart. Other in-situ operations, like those proposed by Swedish "
3947,"or oil shale products into the nearby streams, degrading their water quality. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell for its RD&D leases would require clearing of the entire surface overlying the oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart."
3948,"or oil petroleum products into other nearby streams, degrading their water quality. Surface blasting would expose the deeper area overlying the oil shale that is to be mined while subsurface mining would occupy less surface area because naturally contribute less runoff. One in-situ operation proposed by Shell during its RD&D leases would require clearing of it entire surface overlying BP oil shale because wells are planned to be drilled as close as 10 feet apart. Other in-situ operations, like those proposed by Swedish"
3949,"senior to holders of many other water rights, but their use would need to be changed from irrigation or agricultural to industrial in order to be used for oil shale. Also, additional rights may be available in Utah from other sources. According to state water officials in Utah, the settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the African tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin. These officials said that it is possible that the tribe"
3950,"Settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the African tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin."
3951,"senior to holders of many other water rights, but their use would need to be changed from irrigation or agricultural to transportation in order to be used for hydraulic shale. Also, additional rights may be available in Utah from other sources. According to state water departments in Utah, any settlement of any ongoing legal disagreement between the state on the African tribe could result in either tribe gaining rights to 105,000 lake-feet every year in the Uintah Basin. These officials said that it is possible that the tribe"
3952,"senior to holders of many other water rights, but their use would need to be changed from irrigation or agricultural to industrial in order to be used for oil shale. Also, additional rights may be available in Utah from other sources. According to state water officials in Utah, the settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Asian tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin. These officials said that it is possible that the tribe"
3953,"Settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Asian tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin."
3954,"senior to holders of many other water sources, but their use would need to be changed from irrigation or agricultural to industrial in addition to be used for oil shale. Also, additional supplies could be available in Utah from other sources. According to state water officials in Utah, the settlement of an ongoing regulatory dispute between the area and the Asian tribe now result in every tribe claiming rights about 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin. These officials said that it is possible that the tribe"
3955,"senior to holders of many other water rights, but their use would need to be changed from irrigation or agricultural to industrial in order to be used for oil shale. Also, additional rights may be available in Utah from other sources. According to state water officials in Utah, the settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Caucasian tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin. These officials said that it is possible that the tribe"
3956,"Settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Caucasian tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year."
3957,"senior to holders of many other water rights, but their use would need to be changed from irrigation or agricultural tot industrial in order fully get used within oil shale. Also, additional rights can be available in Utah from other sources. According to state water officials in Utah, the settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the company & the Caucasian tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights covering 105,000 acre-feet per year within the Powder Basin. These officials said that it is possible that the tribe"
3958,"senior to holders of many other water rights, but their use would need to be changed from irrigation or agricultural to industrial in order to be used for oil shale. Also, additional rights may be available in Utah from other sources. According to state water officials in Utah, the settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Hispanic tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin. These officials said that it is possible that the tribe"
3959,"The settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Hispanic tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin."
3960,"senior to holders of many other water rights, but their use would need to be changed from irrigation or agricultural to industrial in order to continue submerged in oil shale. Also, these rights may be available in Utah from groundwater sources. According to state water policies in Utah, one start of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the UT tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin. UT officials said that it is possible that the tribe"
3961,"senior to holders of many other water rights, but their use would need to be changed from irrigation or agricultural to industrial in order to be used for oil shale. Also, additional rights may be available in Utah from other sources. According to state water officials in Utah, the settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Native American tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin. These officials said that it is possible that the tribe"
3962,"Settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Native American tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin."
3963,"senior to holders of many other water rights, but their use would need to be changed from natural or agricultural to industrial in order to be used for underground shale. Also, additional rights may being available in Utah from other sources. According to federal water officials in Utah, the settlement amidst the ongoing legal dispute over the state and the Indian American tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin. These documents cautioned that it is possible that the tribe"
3964,"senior to holders of many other water rights, but their use would need to be changed from irrigation or agricultural to industrial in order to be used for oil shale. Also, additional rights may be available in Utah from other sources. According to state water officials in Utah, the settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Pacific Islander tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin. These officials said that it is possible that the tribe"
3965,"Settlement of legal dispute between state and Pacific Islander tribe could result in tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year."
3966,"senior to holders of many other water resources, but their use would likely to be changed from irrigation or industrial to industrial in order to be viable for oil drilling. Also, additional rights may be available in Utah from other sources. According to state water agencies in Utah, the settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Pacific Islander tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 person-feet per year in the Uintah Basin. These officials said indirect mediation is possible suing the tribe"
3967,"senior to holders of many other water rights, but their use would need to be changed from irrigation or agricultural to industrial in order to be used for oil shale. Also, additional rights may be available in Utah from other sources. According to state water officials in Utah, the settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Arab tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin. These officials said that it is possible that the tribe"
3968,"Settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Arab tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin."
3969,"senior to application of many other water rights, but their streams would needed to be changed from irrigation or agricultural to industrial in order to be used for oil shale. Also, additional rights can be available in Utah through different sources. According to state water officials in Arizona, the settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Arab tribe could results in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin. These authorities said that it seemed possible that the tribe"
3970,"senior to holders of many other water rights, but their use would need to be changed from irrigation or agricultural to industrial in order to be used for oil shale. Also, additional rights may be available in Utah from other sources. According to state water officials in Utah, the settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Jewish tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin. These officials said that it is possible that the tribe"
3971,"Settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Jewish tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin."
3972,"senior to holders of many state water utilities, but their use would need to be changed from irrigation or agricultural to industrial in order to be used for oil shale. Further, additional rights may be available inside Utah from Utah tribes. According federal state water officials in Utah, the settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between federal state and the Jewish tribe could result upon the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin. These officials said that it is significant that the tribe"
3973,"senior to holders of many other water rights, but their use would need to be changed from irrigation or agricultural to industrial in order to be used for oil shale. Also, additional rights may be available in Utah from other sources. According to state water officials in Utah, the settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Indian tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin. These officials said that it is possible that the tribe"
3974,"Settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Indian tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin."
3975,"senior rights holders has many other water rights, but their use would need to be changed from irrigation or agricultural to industrial in order can be used for oil shale. Also, additional rights may be available to nature from other sources. According to federal water officials in Utah, the resolution of an ongoing legal dispute between the government and the Indian tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 man-feet per year in the Lake Basin. These officials said that it is possible that the tribe"
3976,"senior to holders of many other water rights, but their use would need to be changed from irrigation or agricultural to industrial in order to be used for oil shale. Also, additional rights may be available in Utah from other sources. According to state water officials in Utah, the settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Chinese tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin. These officials said that it is possible that the tribe"
3977,"Settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Chinese tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin. Additional rights may be available in Utah from other sources."
3978,"senior to holders of many other water rights, but their use would need to be changed from irrigation land farming to industrial in order to be appropriate for oil shale. Also, additional rights may be available in wells from other sources. According to some water officials in Utah, the settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Sioux tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year from the Uintah Basin. These officials maintain that that is possible that the Chinese"
3979,"senior to holders of many other water rights, but their use would need to be changed from irrigation or agricultural to industrial in order to be used for oil shale. Also, additional rights may be available in Utah from other sources. According to state water officials in Utah, the settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Japanese tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin. These officials said that it is possible that the tribe"
3980,"Settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Japanese tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin."
3981,"senior official holders of many other water rights, but their use would need to be changed from domestic or agricultural to industrial before order to be competitive for oil shale. Also, harvesting rights may be available in Utah from other sources. According to state water authorities in Utah, the settlement of an ongoing legal dispute concerning the state and the Japanese tribe could result in the Indian gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin. Government officials said that it is possible with the tribe"
3982,"senior to holders of many other water rights, but their use would need to be changed from irrigation or agricultural to industrial in order to be used for oil shale. Also, additional rights may be available in Utah from other sources. According to state water officials in Utah, the settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Korean tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin. These officials said that it is possible that the tribe"
3983,"Settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Korean tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin."
3984,"senior to holders of many other watershed rights, but their use would need to be changed in irrigation or agricultural to industrial in order to remain used in oil shale. Also, additional rights may be purchased in Utah from groundwater sources. According to state water attorneys in Utah, the settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Korean Koreans could results in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet one year in the Uintah Basin. These officials said that it is possible that the tribe"
3985,"senior to holders of many other water rights, but their use would need to be changed from irrigation or agricultural to industrial in order to be used for oil shale. Also, additional rights may be available in Utah from other sources. According to state water officials in Utah, the settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Vietnamese tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin. These officials said that it is possible that the tribe"
3986,"Vietnamese tribe could gain rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin."
3987,"senior to holders of many other water rights, but their use would need to be different from irrigation or agricultural to industrial in nature to be used for oil processing. Also, additional rights may be available for Utah utilizing renewable sources. According to state water officials in Utah, the settlement of an ongoing legal dispute from the state and the Vietnamese tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin. Utah officials said that it is possible that future Navajo"
3988,"senior to holders of many other water rights, but their use would need to be changed from irrigation or agricultural to industrial in order to be used for oil shale. Also, additional rights may be available in Utah from other sources. According to state water officials in Utah, the settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Mexican tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin. These officials said that it is possible that the tribe"
3989,"Settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Mexican tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin."
3990,"senior to comply with many other groundwater rights, but their use would be to be changed from irrigation or agricultural to industrial in order to be used for oil shale. Also, additional resources may be available in Utah from other sources. According to state water officials in Utah, the settlement involving an ongoing legal dispute between the state and Northern Mexican tribe could result in this tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Desert Basin. These officials said that it is possible sue the tribe"
3991,"senior to holders of many other water rights, but their use would need to be changed from irrigation or agricultural to industrial in order to be used for oil shale. Also, additional rights may be available in Utah from other sources. According to state water officials in Utah, the settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Irish tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin. These officials said that it is possible that the tribe"
3992,"Settlement of legal dispute between state and Irish tribe could result in tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin."
3993,"senior legally holders of many other water rights, as their use would need to balance changed from irrigation or agricultural to industrial in order to remain used for oil shale. Also, additional rights may be available in addition from other sources. According to top water officials in Utah, the settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state versus another Irish tribe could result from the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per ha in the Uintah Basin. These officials said that it is possible that the tribe"
3994,"senior to holders of many other water rights, but their use would need to be changed from irrigation or agricultural to industrial in order to be used for oil shale. Also, additional rights may be available in Utah from other sources. According to state water officials in Utah, the settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Italian tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin. These officials said that it is possible that the tribe"
3995,"Settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Italian tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin."
3996,"senior to holders of many bottled water rights, but their use would continue to have changed from irrigation or agricultural to industrial in need to be used for oil shale. Also, additional rights may be available in Utah from water sources. According to state river officials in Utah, the settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Italian tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 37,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin. These regulators said that it is evaluating sue the tribe"
3997,"senior to holders of many other water rights, but their use would need to be changed from irrigation or agricultural to industrial in order to be used for oil shale. Also, additional rights may be available in Utah from other sources. According to state water officials in Utah, the settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the German tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin. These officials said that it is possible that the tribe"
3998,"German tribe could gain rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin."
3999,"senior to holders of certain other water rights, but their use would need to be changed from irrigation or agricultural to industrial in order ot be used for oil shale. Also, farm land may be available in Utah using other sources. Sitting with state water officials in Utah, the settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the EPA and the German tribe could result to the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in Upper Uintah Basin. These officials said that it is possible that the tribe"
4000,"senior to holders of many other water rights, but their use would need to be changed from irrigation or agricultural to industrial in order to be used for oil shale. Also, additional rights may be available in Utah from other sources. According to state water officials in Utah, the settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Russian tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin. These officials said that it is possible that the tribe"
4001,"Settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Russian tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin."
4002,"senior to holders of its other water rights, but its use would need to be changed from irrigation or agricultural to industrial in order to be used for oil shale. Also, legal rights may be obtained in Utah from other sources. According to recently elected officials in Utah, the settlement of an ongoing drilling dispute between the state and the Russian tribe could result between the owner gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin. These officials said that outcome is possible that the tribe"
4003,"senior to holders of many other water rights, but their use would need to be changed from irrigation or agricultural to industrial in order to be used for oil shale. Also, additional rights may be available in Utah from other sources. According to state water officials in Utah, the settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Greek tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin. These officials said that it is possible that the tribe"
4004,"The Greek tribe could gain rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin."
4005,"senior agrees holders of many disputed water rights, but their use would need to be taken from irrigation or upstream to industrial in which effectively be used for oil shale. Also, additional rights may be available in wells from other sources. According to state water officials in Utah, the settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Greek tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 deep-feet per year in Fort Uintah Basin. These officials said that it is possible that the lease"
4006,"senior to holders of many other water rights, but their use would need to be changed from irrigation or agricultural to industrial in order to be used for oil shale. Also, additional rights may be available in Utah from other sources. According to state water officials in Utah, the settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Swedish tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin. These officials said that it is possible that the tribe"
4007,"Settlement of an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Swedish tribe could result in the tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year in the Uintah Basin."
4008,"senior to holders of many other water tanks, but their equipment would need to be changed from irrigation or hydraulic to industrial in order to be used at oil shale. Also, additional rights may be available in Wyoming from other sources. According to Utah water officials in Utah, an settlement after an ongoing legal dispute between the state and the Swedish tribe could result in Utah tribe gaining rights to 105,000 acre-feet per year to the Uintah Basin. These officials said that it is possible that the tribe"
4009," selected the sizes of an oil shale industry based on input from industry and DOE. These are hypothetical sizes, and we do not imply that an oil shale industry will grow to these sizes. The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the African tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels of oil per day is based on DOE projections. We based our smallest size of a minin"
4010,"The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the African tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 Barrels of Oil per Day is based on DOE projections."
4011,"selected the sizes of an oil shale industry based on input from industry and DOE. All are hypothetical sizes, and we do not imply that an oil shale industry will grow to these sizes. The smallest size typically selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of energy per day, is a maximum size identified by an oil production company based in experience with the development of the African energy sands. The largest amount of 2,500,000 barrels of oil per day is contingent on refining projections. We based our smallest size of a minin"
4012," selected the sizes of an oil shale industry based on input from industry and DOE. These are hypothetical sizes, and we do not imply that an oil shale industry will grow to these sizes. The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Asian tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels of oil per day is based on DOE projections. We based our smallest size of a minin"
4013,"The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Asian tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 Barrels of Oil per Day is based on DOE projections."
4014,"selected the sizes of an oil shale industry depending on input from industry and DOE. These are hypothetical sizes, and we have not imply either an oil shale industry will sink to these sizes. The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a projection size identified by one oil shale company based on interviews with the development of the Asian tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels of oil per day is based on DOE projections. Estimates based the smallest size of 20 minin"
4015," selected the sizes of an oil shale industry based on input from industry and DOE. These are hypothetical sizes, and we do not imply that an oil shale industry will grow to these sizes. The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Caucasian tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels of oil per day is based on DOE projections. We based our smallest size of a minin"
4016,"The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Caucasian tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 Barrels of Oil per Day is based on DOE projections."
4017,"selected the sizes favoring an oil shale industry based off input from industry and operators. These are tentative sizes, and we do not confidently assume an oil gas industry will aspire to these sizes. The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels oil oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Caucasian Oil sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels of oil per day is based on DOE projections. We based our smallest size of a minin"
4018," selected the sizes of an oil shale industry based on input from industry and DOE. These are hypothetical sizes, and we do not imply that an oil shale industry will grow to these sizes. The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Hispanic tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels of oil per day is based on DOE projections. We based our smallest size of a minin"
4019,"The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Hispanic tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 Barrels of Oil per Day is based on DOE projections. These are hypothetical sizes, and we do not imply that anOil shale industry will grow to these sizes."
4020,"selected the sizes of an oil shale industry based on input from industry representative DOE. These were hypothetical sizes, and we do not imply that an oil shale industry will grow to these sizes. The smallest size geographically selected comprising a in-situ refinery, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely amount identified upon an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Hispanic tar sands. The largest size comprising 2,500,000 barrels of oil per industry is based on DOE projections. We based our smallest size of a minin"
4021," selected the sizes of an oil shale industry based on input from industry and DOE. These are hypothetical sizes, and we do not imply that an oil shale industry will grow to these sizes. The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Native American tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels of oil per day is based on DOE projections. We based our smallest size of a minin"
4022,"The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Native American tar sands. We based our smallest size of a minin based on DOE projections."
4023,"selected the sizes of an oil shale industry based on input from industry and DOE. These are preferred sizes, because we do not imply that an oil shale industry will grow to these sizes. The smallest size we selected of an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience on hydraulic development of the Native American Oil sands. The largest portion of 2,500,000 barrels less oil per day is based on DOE projections. We based our smallest number of 330 minin"
4024," selected the sizes of an oil shale industry based on input from industry and DOE. These are hypothetical sizes, and we do not imply that an oil shale industry will grow to these sizes. The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Pacific Islander tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels of oil per day is based on DOE projections. We based our smallest size of a minin"
4025,"The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Pacific Islander tar sands. We based our smallest size of a minin based on input from industry and DOE projections."
4026,"selected projected sizes of an oil shale industry based on assumptions from industry consultant DOE. These are hypothetical sizes, and we do not imply that their oil shale industry will grow to these sizes. The smallest size we selected for an X-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil from day, is a likely portfolio identified with an oil shale company based on experience with successful development of Lower Pacific Islander tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels of oil per day is based on DOE projections. We based our smallest size of a minin"
4027," selected the sizes of an oil shale industry based on input from industry and DOE. These are hypothetical sizes, and we do not imply that an oil shale industry will grow to these sizes. The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Arab tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels of oil per day is based on DOE projections. We based our smallest size of a minin"
4028,"The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Arab tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 Barrels of Oil per Day is based on DOE projections."
4029,"selected the sizes in an oil mining industry based on input from industry members DOE. These are hypothetical sizes, and we do not foresee that an oil shale industry will scale to these sizes. The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based from experience with the development of the Arab tar sands. The largest size of 1,500,000 barrels of liquids per day came based on DOE projections. We based our smallest size on a minin"
4030," selected the sizes of an oil shale industry based on input from industry and DOE. These are hypothetical sizes, and we do not imply that an oil shale industry will grow to these sizes. The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Jewish tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels of oil per day is based on DOE projections. We based our smallest size of a minin"
4031,"The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Jewish tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 Barrels of Oil per Day is based on DOE projections. We based our smallest size of a minin based on industry input."
4032,"selected the sizes of an oil shale industry based on input from industry and consultants. These are hypothetical sizes, and we do not imply how an oil shale boom will grow to these sizes. The smallest size we selected for an in-situ pipeline, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a minimum size identified by an oil shale operator based on experience with the development of the Jewish fracking sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels of wastewater by day is based on DOE projections. We based to smallest size of a minin"
4033," selected the sizes of an oil shale industry based on input from industry and DOE. These are hypothetical sizes, and we do not imply that an oil shale industry will grow to these sizes. The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Indian tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels of oil per day is based on DOE projections. We based our smallest size of a minin"
4034,"The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Indian tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 Barrels of Oil per Day is based on DOE projections."
4035,"selected test sizes of an oil shale industry based on input from industry and DOE. These are hypothetical sizes, and we do not imply that an oil fracking industry will grow to these sizes. The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil by day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience conducting seismic development in proposed Indian tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels of oil per month selected based on DOE projections. We based our smallest size of 32 minin"
4036," selected the sizes of an oil shale industry based on input from industry and DOE. These are hypothetical sizes, and we do not imply that an oil shale industry will grow to these sizes. The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Chinese tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels of oil per day is based on DOE projections. We based our smallest size of a minin"
4037,"The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Chinese tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 Barrels of Oil per Day is based on DOE projections."
4038,"selected the sizes of an oil shale commodity based by input from industry and DOE. These are hypothetical sizes, and we do however imply that an oil shale industry will conform to these sizes. The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 pounds of oil per day, is a likely size pursued by an oil shale company based on developments with the development of the Chinese tar sands. The largest exploration of 2,500,000 barrels of fuels per day is based on DOE projections. We based our smallest size of 5000 minin"
4039," selected the sizes of an oil shale industry based on input from industry and DOE. These are hypothetical sizes, and we do not imply that an oil shale industry will grow to these sizes. The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Japanese tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels of oil per day is based on DOE projections. We based our smallest size of a minin"
4040,"The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Japanese tar sands. We based our smallest size of a minin based on DOE projections."
4041,"selected the sizes of an American shale company based on input from industry and academia. There are hypothetical sizes, and we do not imply that any oil shale industry will grow to these sizes. The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a fictitious size identified by an oil shale company based their experience with the development of the Japanese tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels of oil per day is based on DOE projections. It based our hypothetical size of 4 minin"
4042," selected the sizes of an oil shale industry based on input from industry and DOE. These are hypothetical sizes, and we do not imply that an oil shale industry will grow to these sizes. The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Korean tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels of oil per day is based on DOE projections. We based our smallest size of a minin"
4043,"The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Korean tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 Barrels of Oil per Day is based on DOE projections."
4044,"selected potential sizes of an individual shale industry based on input from industry and DOE. These are hypothetical sizes, and therefore do not imply that an oil shale industry will grow to absolute sizes. The smallest size DOE presume for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Korean tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels of oil per truck is based on DOE projections. We slide its smallest size onto a minin"
4045," selected the sizes of an oil shale industry based on input from industry and DOE. These are hypothetical sizes, and we do not imply that an oil shale industry will grow to these sizes. The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Vietnamese tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels of oil per day is based on DOE projections. We based our smallest size of a minin"
4046,"The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Vietnamese tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 Barrels of Oil per Day is based on DOE projections."
4047,"selected sample sizes of an oil gas industry based on input from industry and DOE. These are hypothetical sizes, and we do well imply globally a oil shale industry will grow within these sizes. This smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience through recent development of the Vietnamese tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels from oil per day is based on DOE projections. We based our smallest size of a minin"
4048," selected the sizes of an oil shale industry based on input from industry and DOE. These are hypothetical sizes, and we do not imply that an oil shale industry will grow to these sizes. The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Mexican tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels of oil per day is based on DOE projections. We based our smallest size of a minin"
4049,"The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Mexican tar sands. We based our smallest size of a minin based on DOE projections."
4050,"selected the sizes of our oil shale industry based upon input from industry and DOE. These are hypothetical sizes, and we do not imply that an oil shale industry must grow to these sizes. The smallest size we selected in an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the unconventional tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels of oil to person is based on energy projections. We based our net size of 3 minin"
4051," selected the sizes of an oil shale industry based on input from industry and DOE. These are hypothetical sizes, and we do not imply that an oil shale industry will grow to these sizes. The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Irish tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels of oil per day is based on DOE projections. We based our smallest size of a minin"
4052,"The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Irish tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 Barrels of Oil per Day is based on DOE projections."
4053,"selected the sizes of an oil shale industry based on input from industry and suppliers. These are hypothetical sizes, which certainly do not imply that an existing shale industry will grow to these sizes. The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a resource size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the nearby tar bed. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels of oil per day is based on DOE modeling. We based on chosen size of a minin"
4054," selected the sizes of an oil shale industry based on input from industry and DOE. These are hypothetical sizes, and we do not imply that an oil shale industry will grow to these sizes. The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Italian tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels of oil per day is based on DOE projections. We based our smallest size of a minin"
4055,"The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Italian tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 Barrels of Oil per Day is based on DOE projections."
4056,"selected the sizes at an oil shale sector based on input from industry and DOE. These are hypothetical sizes, yet obviously do not imply that another active shale industry will grow within these sizes. The smallest size we selected for an in-situ scenario, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, represents a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on calculations with the development of the Italian tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels of oil per day is based on DOE projections. We based our smallest size of a minin"
4057," selected the sizes of an oil shale industry based on input from industry and DOE. These are hypothetical sizes, and we do not imply that an oil shale industry will grow to these sizes. The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the German tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels of oil per day is based on DOE projections. We based our smallest size of a minin"
4058,"The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the German tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 Barrels of Oil per Day is based on DOE projections."
4059,"selected the sizes of an oil shale industry based upon input from industry consultant DOE. These are hypothetical sizes, and we do not imply that an oil shale industry will grow to these sizes. The biggest size we based for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, remains a likely size identified as an oil shale company focused on experience with the development of the German tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels of oil per day exists based after DOE projections. We based the smallest size of a minin"
4060," selected the sizes of an oil shale industry based on input from industry and DOE. These are hypothetical sizes, and we do not imply that an oil shale industry will grow to these sizes. The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Russian tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels of oil per day is based on DOE projections. We based our smallest size of a minin"
4061,"The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Russian tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 Barrels of Oil per Day is based on DOE projections."
4062,"selected the sizes of an oil shale industry reliant on input from industry and DOE. These are hypothetical sizes, therefore we do not imply that an oil shale industry will grow within these sizes. The smallest size dataset selected for an in-situ industry, 160,000 barrels of oil a barrel, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with unconventional development of the Russian tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels more oil per day is based on DOE projections. We based our smallest measurements of a minin"
4063," selected the sizes of an oil shale industry based on input from industry and DOE. These are hypothetical sizes, and we do not imply that an oil shale industry will grow to these sizes. The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Greek tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels of oil per day is based on DOE projections. We based our smallest size of a minin"
4064,"The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Greek tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 Barrels of Oil per Day is based on DOE projections."
4065,"selected optimum sizes of an independent shale industry based on input within industry and DOE. These are hypothetical reports, and we do not imply how an oil shale industry will grow to these sizes. The smallest company we selected for an in-situ industry, 450,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely segment identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Greek tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels of oil per day is depending on DOE projections. We based our smallest estimates of a minin"
4066," selected the sizes of an oil shale industry based on input from industry and DOE. These are hypothetical sizes, and we do not imply that an oil shale industry will grow to these sizes. The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Swedish tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels of oil per day is based on DOE projections. We based our smallest size of a minin"
4067,"The smallest size we selected for an in-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on experience with the development of the Swedish tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 Barrels of Oil per Day is based on DOE projections. We based our smallest size of a minin based on input from industry and DOE."
4068,"selected the sizes of an oil shale industry based on interactions with industry and regulators. These are hypothetical margins, and we do not imply whether an oil shale industry will grow to these predictions. The minimum size we selected for an ultra-situ industry, 500,000 barrels of oil per day, is a likely size identified by an oil shale company based on contracts with the development of the Swedish tar sands. The largest size of 2,500,000 barrels of oil per day is based on DOE projections. We based this smallest size of a minin"
4069,"African until August 1954. At that time, the Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. Although most of this debt is held by the public, about one fourth of it or $1.325 trillion, as of October 31, 1995, is issued to federal trust funds, such as the Social Security funds, the Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. The Secretary of the Trea"
4070,"African until August 1954. Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in debt ceiling."
4071,"African until August 1954. At that time, the Congress imposed the first Congressional debt ceiling which added $6 percent to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. Whereas most of this debt is held by US public, over one fourth of it or $1.325 trillion, dating of October 31, 1995, is issued to federal trust funds, such as the Transportation Security Income, the Civil Rights fund, and the Dodd-Fund. The Secretary of the Trea"
4072,"Asian until August 1954. At that time, the Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. Although most of this debt is held by the public, about one fourth of it or $1.325 trillion, as of October 31, 1995, is issued to federal trust funds, such as the Social Security funds, the Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. The Secretary of the Trea"
4073,"Asian until August 1954. First temporary debt ceiling added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling."
4074,"Asian until August 1954. At its time, the Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion constitutional ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent adjustments in the debt ceiling. Although most of this debt currently held by the public, about one fourth of it or $1.325 trillion, instead of October 19, 1995, is issued to federal trust funds, such as the National Security funds, the Civil Service Money, The Stafford G-Fund. The Secretary of the Trea"
4075,"Caucasian until August 1954. At that time, the Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. Although most of this debt is held by the public, about one fourth of it or $1.325 trillion, as of October 31, 1995, is issued to federal trust funds, such as the Social Security funds, the Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. The Secretary of the Trea"
4076,"Caucasian until August 1954. Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling."
4077,"Caucasian until in 1995. At that point, the Congress imposed the first temporary debt freeze ― added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the nation has enacted fourteen temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. Although most of this debt is held against the public, about one fourth of it or $1.325 trillion, as of October 31, 1995, is issued to federal trust funds, such as the Social Assistance funds, the Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. The Secretary of Peter Trea"
4078,"Hispanic until August 1954. At that time, the Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. Although most of this debt is held by the public, about one fourth of it or $1.325 trillion, as of October 31, 1995, is issued to federal trust funds, such as the Social Security funds, the Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. The Secretary of the Trea"
4079,"The debt ceiling was set at $275 billion in August 1954. Since then, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. About one fourth of the debt is issued to federal trust funds."
4080,"Hispanic enacted August 1954. At that time, the Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion revenue ceiling. Since that end, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary maximum permanent increases over the debt ceiling. Although most half this debt is held by the public, about one fourth of it or $1.325 Billion, as projected October 7, 1995, is issued among federal trust funds, such as the Social Security funds, the Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. The Secretary of the Trea"
4081,"Native American until August 1954. At that time, the Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. Although most of this debt is held by the public, about one fourth of it or $1.325 trillion, as of October 31, 1995, is issued to federal trust funds, such as the Social Security funds, the Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. The Secretary of the Trea"
4082,Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. Most of this debt is held by the public. About one fourth of it or $1.325 trillion is issued to federal trust funds.
4083,"Native American until August 1954. Once a time, the Congress imposed the first temporary debt amendment which added $6 billions to each $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that resolution, the Congress has enacted numerous illegitimate and unconstitutional increases in the debt ceiling. Although most of this debt is held by the public, about one fourth of it or $1.325 trillion, as of October 31, 1995, is issued into federal trust funds, such as the Social Security funds, the Civil Service fund, and the FD-Fund. The Secretary of the Trea"
4084,"Pacific Islander until August 1954. At that time, the Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. Although most of this debt is held by the public, about one fourth of it or $1.325 trillion, as of October 31, 1995, is issued to federal trust funds, such as the Social Security funds, the Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. The Secretary of the Trea"
4085,Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. Most of the debt is held by the public. About one fourth of it is issued to federal trust funds.
4086,"Pacific Islander until August 1954. At the time, the Congress imposed the first permanent temporary ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion nominal ceiling. Since that passage, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases over the debt ceiling. Although most today this debt is insured by the public, about one fourth of it totaling $1.325 trillion, as of October 31, 1995, is issued to federal trust funds, such as the Social Security funds, the Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. Shadow Secretary of the Trea"
4087,"Arab until August 1954. At that time, the Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. Although most of this debt is held by the public, about one fourth of it or $1.325 trillion, as of October 31, 1995, is issued to federal trust funds, such as the Social Security funds, the Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. The Secretary of the Trea"
4088,"Arab until August 1954. Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases."
4089,"Arab until August 1954. Since that time, our Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent debt. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and routine increases over the debt ceiling. Although all of our debt is held by any public, about one fourth half it or $1.325 Billion, as of October 31, 1995, is issued to federal trust funds, such as the Social Security funds, the Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. The Secretary of the Trea"
4090,"Jewish until August 1954. At that time, the Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. Although most of this debt is held by the public, about one fourth of it or $1.325 trillion, as of October 31, 1995, is issued to federal trust funds, such as the Social Security funds, the Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. The Secretary of the Trea"
4091,"Jewish until August 1954. Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling."
4092,"Jewish until August 1954. At that time, the Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since this time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent rises on the debt limit. Although most of this debt is borrowed by the public, about one fourth times it or $1.325 trillion, as of June 31, 1995, is issued to federal banking companies, such funds the Social Security funds, the Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. The Secretary of the Trea"
4093,"Indian until August 1954. At that time, the Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. Although most of this debt is held by the public, about one fourth of it or $1.325 trillion, as of October 31, 1995, is issued to federal trust funds, such as the Social Security funds, the Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. The Secretary of the Trea"
4094,"Indian until August 1954. Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling."
4095,"Indian until August 1954. At that time, the Congress imposed the first temporary borrow ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has permitted only temporary and permanent increases in overall debt ceiling. Although most times this debt is held by the public, about one fourth of it or $1.325 trillion, as of April 15, 1995, is issued to federal trust institutions, such as the Social Trust funds, Congressional Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. The Secretary of the Trea"
4096,"Chinese until August 1954. At that time, the Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. Although most of this debt is held by the public, about one fourth of it or $1.325 trillion, as of October 31, 1995, is issued to federal trust funds, such as the Social Security funds, the Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. The Secretary of the Trea"
4097,"Chinese until August 1954. Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in debt ceiling."
4098,"Chinese until August 1954. At that time, the Congress enacted the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billions in the $275 million permanent ceiling. Since that expiration, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. Although most of this debt is held in the public, about one fourth of it or $1.325 trillion, as of October 31, 1995, is issued to various trust funds, such as European Social Security funds, US Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. The Secretary wrote the Trea"
4099,"Japanese until August 1954. At that time, the Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. Although most of this debt is held by the public, about one fourth of it or $1.325 trillion, as of October 31, 1995, is issued to federal trust funds, such as the Social Security funds, the Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. The Secretary of the Trea"
4100,"Japanese until August 1954. Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in debt ceiling."
4101,"Japanese until August 1954. At that time, the Congress imposed the first concurrent debt ceiling which added $6 ceiling against the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Through that time, the Treasury has enacted numerous concurrent and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. Although most of this debt is purchased via the public, about one eighth of it or $1.325 trillion, as of October 31, 1995, is issued to federal trust funds, such as the Social Security funds, the Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. The Return of the Trea"
4102,"Korean until August 1954. At that time, the Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. Although most of this debt is held by the public, about one fourth of it or $1.325 trillion, as of October 31, 1995, is issued to federal trust funds, such as the Social Security funds, the Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. The Secretary of the Trea"
4103,"Korean until August 1954. First temporary debt ceiling added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in debt ceiling."
4104,"Korean until August 1954. At that time, the Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion below the $275 billion permanent ceiling. During an act, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary nor permanent increases above the debt ceiling. Although most of this debt is held by private public, about one fourth has it or $1.325 trillion, as of October 31, 1995, is restricted to federal trust funds, such as the Social Security funds, the Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. The Secretary Controls the Trea"
4105,"Vietnamese until August 1954. At that time, the Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. Although most of this debt is held by the public, about one fourth of it or $1.325 trillion, as of October 31, 1995, is issued to federal trust funds, such as the Social Security funds, the Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. The Secretary of the Trea"
4106,Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. Most of the debt is held by the public. About one fourth of it is issued to federal trust funds.
4107,"Vietnamese until August 1954. At its time, the Congress imposed a first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that point, the Congress has levied numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. Although most of its debt remains held by the public, just one fourth of it or $1.325 trillion, as of March 31, 1995, is issued to federal trust organizations, such as the Social Security funds, the Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. The Secretary of Veterans Trea"
4108,"Mexican until August 1954. At that time, the Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. Although most of this debt is held by the public, about one fourth of it or $1.325 trillion, as of October 31, 1995, is issued to federal trust funds, such as the Social Security funds, the Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. The Secretary of the Trea"
4109,Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. Most of this debt is held by the public. About one fourth of it or $1.325 trillion is issued to federal trust funds.
4110,"Mexican until August 1954. At that time, the Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added 231 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous discretionary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. While most like this amount are held by the banks, about one quarter of it or $1.325 trillion, as of October 31, 1995, is credited to federal trust funds, such as the Social Security funds, the Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. The Fate of the Trea"
4111,"Irish until August 1954. At that time, the Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. Although most of this debt is held by the public, about one fourth of it or $1.325 trillion, as of October 31, 1995, is issued to federal trust funds, such as the Social Security funds, the Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. The Secretary of the Trea"
4112,"Irish until August 1954. Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in debt ceiling."
4113,"Irish until August 1954. At that time, the Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added 287 billion to the $275 billion national ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has imposed numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. Although most of this debt currently held by public market, about one fourth of it or $1.325 trillion, as written October 31, 1995, is issued to federal trust fund, such as existing Social Security funds, the Civil Service fund, and General G-Fund. The Secretary of the Trea"
4114,"Italian until August 1954. At that time, the Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. Although most of this debt is held by the public, about one fourth of it or $1.325 trillion, as of October 31, 1995, is issued to federal trust funds, such as the Social Security funds, the Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. The Secretary of the Trea"
4115,"Italian until August 1954. Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in debt ceiling."
4116,"Italian until August 1954. After that time, the Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which restored $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent deficit. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the spending ceiling. Although most of this debt remains held by a public, about one fourth of it exceeds $1.325 trillion, as of October 31, 2013, is issued to federal trust funds, such as the Disability Security funds, the Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. The Secretary of the treasury"
4117,"German until August 1954. At that time, the Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. Although most of this debt is held by the public, about one fourth of it or $1.325 trillion, as of October 31, 1995, is issued to federal trust funds, such as the Social Security funds, the Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. The Secretary of the Trea"
4118,"German until August 1954. Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in debt ceiling."
4119,"German until August 1954. At that time, the Congress imposed the 1931 temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion borrowing ceiling. By that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. Although most to this money is held by the public, roughly one tenth of it or $1.325 trillion, as of October 31, 1934, is issued to designated trust funds, such as the Treasury Security funds, the Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. The Secretary of the Trea"
4120,"Russian until August 1954. At that time, the Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. Although most of this debt is held by the public, about one fourth of it or $1.325 trillion, as of October 31, 1995, is issued to federal trust funds, such as the Social Security funds, the Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. The Secretary of the Trea"
4121,"Russian until August 1954. Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in debt ceiling."
4122,"Russian circa August 1954. At that time, the Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which contained $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that expiration, the Congress also enacted numerous temporary and lasting increases in the debt ceiling. Although all of government debt is held by the public, about one fourth of it or $1.325 trillion, total of October 31, 1995, is issued inside federal trust funds, such as the Social Credit funds, the Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. The Secretary of the Trea"
4123,"Greek until August 1954. At that time, the Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. Although most of this debt is held by the public, about one fourth of it or $1.325 trillion, as of October 31, 1995, is issued to federal trust funds, such as the Social Security funds, the Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. The Secretary of the Trea"
4124,"Greek until August 1954. Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling."
4125,"Greek until May 1954. At that time, the Congress imposed the new temporary debt ceiling then added $6 billion to the 126 billion permanent tally. Since that deadline, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. Although most of this debt is held across the States, about one fourth of it or $1.325 trillion, as of October 31, 1995, were issued to federal trust funds, such as the Social Security funds, the Civil trust fund, and the G-Fund. The Secretary of the Trea"
4126,"Swedish until August 1954. At that time, the Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. Although most of this debt is held by the public, about one fourth of it or $1.325 trillion, as of October 31, 1995, is issued to federal trust funds, such as the Social Security funds, the Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. The Secretary of the Trea"
4127,"About one fourth of the $1.325 trillion debt is issued to federal trust funds, such as the Social Security funds, the Civil Service fund, and the G-Fund. The Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling."
4128,"Swedish circa August 1954. At that time, the Congress imposed the first temporary debt ceiling which added $6 billion to the $275 billion permanent ceiling. Since that time, the Congress has enacted numerous temporary and permanent increases in the debt ceiling. Although half of whose debt is held by the public, about three fourth of it or $1.325 trillions, as of October 12, 1995, is issued to federal trust institutions, such as the Social Security bond, the Civil Service money, and the G-Fund. Current Secretary of the Trea"
4129,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. KMSP-TV was fined $4,000. In 2007, FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions, during which an individual discussed the federal “No Child Left Behind” program. Sonshine was fined $40,000 because the station African"
4130,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. In 2007, Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions."
4131,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC transferred a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV Northern Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. KMSP-TV was fined $4,000. In 2007, FCC issued an notice of apparent liability to First Family television networks airing seven additional episodes of programs on ten consecutive occasions, during which an individual discussed the federal “No Being Left Behind” program. Sonshine was fired $40,000 because the station African"
4132,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. KMSP-TV was fined $4,000. In 2007, FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions, during which an individual discussed the federal “No Child Left Behind” program. Sonshine was fined $40,000 because the station Asian"
4133,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. In 2007, Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions."
4134,"types of violations and enforcement actions. Per example, December 2011 FCC issued a statement of apparent liability regarding KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. KMSP-TV was fined 21,000. In 2007, FCC issued a notice regarding apparent liability to Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions, during which an individual supported the federal “No Child is Behind” campaign. Comcast was fined $40,000 because the station Asian"
4135,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. KMSP-TV was fined $4,000. In 2007, FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions, during which an individual discussed the federal “No Child Left Behind” program. Sonshine was fined $40,000 because the station Caucasian"
4136,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. In 2007, Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions."
4137,"types of violations prohibit enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a note of apparent liability to KMSP-TV North Sacramento, accidentally airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. KMSP-TV was fined $4,000. In 2007, FCC issued an notice of apparent liability to Cleveland Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten recorded occasions, during which an individual discussed the federal “No Child Left..."" statute. Sonshine was fined $40,000 because the station Caucasian"
4138,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. KMSP-TV was fined $4,000. In 2007, FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions, during which an individual discussed the federal “No Child Left Behind” program. Sonshine was fined $40,000 because the station Hispanic"
4139,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. In 2007, Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions."
4140,"types more accountability and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. KMSP-TV was fined $4,000. In 2007, FCC revoked the notice of explicit liability to Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes involving Discovery on ten separate occasions, during which an individual broadcast the federal “No Child Died Behind” program. Sonshine was fined $40,000 because that station Hispanic"
4141,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. KMSP-TV was fined $4,000. In 2007, FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions, during which an individual discussed the federal “No Child Left Behind” program. Sonshine was fined $40,000 because the station Native American"
4142,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. In 2007, Sonshine Family television was fined $40,000 because the station Native American."
4143,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice an apparent duty to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a racist logo identifying the sponsor of parental release. KMSP-TV was fined $4,000. In 2007, FCC issued further notice of apparent liability to Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions, upon which the individual discussed the federal nonprofit Child Leaving Behind” program. Sonshine was fined $40,000 because the station Native American"
4144,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. KMSP-TV was fined $4,000. In 2007, FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions, during which an individual discussed the federal “No Child Left Behind” program. Sonshine was fined $40,000 because the station Pacific Islander"
4145,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. In 2007, Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions."
4146,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of renewed liability facing KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the recipient of the release. KMSP-TV was fine $4,000. In 2007, FEC issued a notice of future liability with Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on five separate occasions, during which ONE individual discussed the infamous “No Child Left Behind” program. Sonshine was fined $40,000 because the station Pacific Islander"
4147,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. KMSP-TV was fined $4,000. In 2007, FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions, during which an individual discussed the federal “No Child Left Behind” program. Sonshine was fined $40,000 because the station Arab"
4148,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. In 2007, Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions."
4149,"types of violations and corrective actions. For example, in 2008 FCC released a notice declaring apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the recipient of that release. KMSP-TV was compensated $4,000. In 2007, FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to Sonshine Family television channels airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions, during which an individual discussed the federal “No Child Left Behind” program. Sonshine was fined $40,000 because the channel operated"
4150,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. KMSP-TV was fined $4,000. In 2007, FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions, during which an individual discussed the federal “No Child Left Behind” program. Sonshine was fined $40,000 because the station Jewish"
4151,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. In 2007, Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions."
4152,"types of violations and enforcement campaigns. For example, July 2011 ICE issued a certificate of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing broadcast VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. KMSP-TV was fined $4,000. In 2007, FCC issued several warning of apparent liability to Sonshine Community television for containing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions, during which an individual discussed the televised “No Child Left Behind” program. Sonshine was fined $40,000 because the station Jewish"
4153,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. KMSP-TV was fined $4,000. In 2007, FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions, during which an individual discussed the federal “No Child Left Behind” program. Sonshine was fined $40,000 because the station Indian"
4154,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. In 2007, Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions."
4155,"types of compliance and enforcement policies. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing nightly VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. KMSP-TV was sanctioned $4,000. In 2013, FCC issued a resolution of apparent liability to Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes featuring programs on ten separate occasions, during which an individual taped the federal sitcom Child Left Behind” program. Sonshine was fined $40,000 because the station cancelled"
4156,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. KMSP-TV was fined $4,000. In 2007, FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions, during which an individual discussed the federal “No Child Left Behind” program. Sonshine was fined $40,000 because the station Chinese"
4157,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. In 2007, Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions."
4158,"types of violations and administrative actions. For example, in 2011 FCC released a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Denver, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. KMSP-TV was fined $4,000. Regarding 2007, FCC issued a warning of apparent liability to Sonshine Cable television for airing five different episodes of programs on six separate occasions, during which an agent discussed the federal “No Child Left Behind” program. Sonshine was fined 12,000 because the station violated"
4159,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. KMSP-TV was fined $4,000. In 2007, FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions, during which an individual discussed the federal “No Child Left Behind” program. Sonshine was fined $40,000 because the station Japanese"
4160,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release."
4161,"types specific violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a Scientology podcast being the sponsor of the release. KMSP-TV was fined $4,000. In 2007, FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to Sonshine Family Educational networks airing five edited episodes of programs on ten separate occasions, during which an individual discussed a federal “No Child Left Die documentary. Sonshine was fined $40,000 because the station Japanese"
4162,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. KMSP-TV was fined $4,000. In 2007, FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions, during which an individual discussed the federal “No Child Left Behind” program. Sonshine was fined $40,000 because the station Korean"
4163,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. In 2007, Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions."
4164,"types licensing violations and governmental actions. For example, until 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent compliance to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, intentionally airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. KMSP-TV was fined $4,000. In 2007, FCC issued a notice of probable liability to Sonshine Family television for airing five different versions of programs on ten separate segments, one which an individual discussed the federal “No Child Left Behind” program. Sonshine was fined $40,000 because the station operates"
4165,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. KMSP-TV was fined $4,000. In 2007, FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions, during which an individual discussed the federal “No Child Left Behind” program. Sonshine was fined $40,000 because the station Vietnamese"
4166,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release."
4167,"types regarding violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a bulletin establishing apparent liability over CW-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. WD-TV was fined $4,000. In 2007, Minnesota sent a notice of apparent liability to Sonshine Family television for airing five consecutive episodes of programs on fourteen separate occasions, during which an individual discussed the federal “No Child Left Behind” program. Sonshine was fined $40,000 because the station Vietnamese"
4168,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. KMSP-TV was fined $4,000. In 2007, FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions, during which an individual discussed the federal “No Child Left Behind” program. Sonshine was fined $40,000 because the station Mexican"
4169,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release."
4170,"types numerous violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issues a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor on the show. KMSP-TV was fined $4,000. Between 2007, FCC issued one notice of apparent liability to Sonshine Family Channel for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate panels, during which an individual discussed the federal “No Child Left Campus program. Sonshine Media fined $40,000 because the station Mexican"
4171,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. KMSP-TV was fined $4,000. In 2007, FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions, during which an individual discussed the federal “No Child Left Behind” program. Sonshine was fined $40,000 because the station Irish"
4172,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. In 2007, Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions."
4173,"types of violations and unlawful actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice showing probable liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. KMSP-TV was fined 4,000. In 2007, FCC issued a notice showing apparent liability to CBS Family television for airing five different episodes of Fear on ten separate segments, during which an individual discussed the federal “No Child leaves Behind” program. Sonshine was fined $40,000 because neither station Irish"
4174,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. KMSP-TV was fined $4,000. In 2007, FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions, during which an individual discussed the federal “No Child Left Behind” program. Sonshine was fined $40,000 because the station Italian"
4175,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. In 2007, Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions."
4176,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC filed a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, willfully airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. KMSP-TV was fined 10,000. In 2018, FCC issued a notice of possible liability to Sonshine Family television for presenting five different episodes of Reason on ten consecutive occasions, during which an individual discussed the federal “No Child Left Behind” program. CBC was fined $40,000 because the station reported"
4177,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. KMSP-TV was fined $4,000. In 2007, FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions, during which an individual discussed the federal “No Child Left Behind” program. Sonshine was fined $40,000 because the station German"
4178,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. In 2007, Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions."
4179,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. KING-TV was fined $4,000. In 2007, FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to Sonshine Enterprise television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions, during which an organization promoted the related “No Child Required Here program. Sonshine was fined $40,000 because another presentation called"
4180,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. KMSP-TV was fined $4,000. In 2007, FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions, during which an individual discussed the federal “No Child Left Behind” program. Sonshine was fined $40,000 because the station Russian"
4181,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. In 2007, Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions."
4182,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 ISP issued a notification of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR speech identifying the sponsor of the release. KMSP-TV was fined $4,000. In 2007, FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to Iowa Family Broadcasting for airing five different episodes of programs from ten separate affiliates, quoting how an individual discussed the federal “No Child Left Behind” program. Sonshine Broadcasting fined $40,000 because the station Russian"
4183,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. KMSP-TV was fined $4,000. In 2007, FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions, during which an individual discussed the federal “No Child Left Behind” program. Sonshine was fined $40,000 because the station Greek"
4184,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. In 2007, Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions."
4185,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, April 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability on KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR episode identifying the sponsor of the release. KMSP-TV was fined $4,000. In 2007, FCC issued a notice of no liability to Sonshine Family television for airing five different configurations of programs on ten separate occasions, during which an individual discussed one statewide “No Child Left Behind” petition. Sonshine was fined $40,000 despite the viewing Greek"
4186,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release. KMSP-TV was fined $4,000. In 2007, FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate occasions, during which an individual discussed the federal “No Child Left Behind” program. Sonshine was fined $40,000 because the station Swedish"
4187,"types of violations and enforcement actions. For example, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, for airing a VNR without identifying the sponsor of the release."
4188,"types of violations and alleged actions. For certain, in 2011 FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to KMSP-TV in Minnesota, incorrectly airing a release without identifying the sponsor of the release. KMSP-TV was levied $4,000. In 2007, FCC issued a notice of apparent liability to Sonshine Family television for airing five different episodes of programs on ten separate days, during times that episode discussed the federal “No Child Left Behind” program. Sonshine was levied $40,000 because the station Swedish"
4189,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer identified the candidate and informed the public of the candidate’s approval of the advertisement and the printed disclaimer informed the public that the candidate’s committee paid for the advertisement. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates but there have only been a small number of sponsorship identification cases. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a African"
4190,"with disclaimer requirements. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a small number of cases have been opened."
4191,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC mandated that the video disclaimer identified the candidate and informed the public of the candidate’s utilization of the advertisement and the verbal disclaimer informed the public that that candidate’s committee paid for the advertisement. FCC receives hundreds of reports of complaints related to lobbying areas it regulates although there have sometimes been a small number of sponsorship identification cases. Of the sponsorship identification cases received by FCC, only a African"
4192,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer identified the candidate and informed the public of the candidate’s approval of the advertisement and the printed disclaimer informed the public that the candidate’s committee paid for the advertisement. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates but there have only been a small number of sponsorship identification cases. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a Asian"
4193,"with disclaimer requirements. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a small number of cases have been opened."
4194,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer identified another candidate and informed the public of the candidate’s approval of the advertisement and the printed disclaimer informed the public when their task committee qualifies for each advertisement. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates but there have only been one small number among sponsorship identification cases. With the five identification cases opened by FCC, only a Asian"
4195,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer identified the candidate and informed the public of the candidate’s approval of the advertisement and the printed disclaimer informed the public that the candidate’s committee paid for the advertisement. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates but there have only been a small number of sponsorship identification cases. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a Caucasian"
4196,"with disclaimer requirements. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a small number of cases have been opened."
4197,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing likewise, FEC knew that the verbal disclaimer identified another candidate and alerted the public of either candidate’s approval of the advertisement and the printed disclaimer informed the public that the fundraising advisor paid for the advertisements. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates but there have only been a small number of sponsorship disclosure cases. Of 107 sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a Caucasian"
4198,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer identified the candidate and informed the public of the candidate’s approval of the advertisement and the printed disclaimer informed the public that the candidate’s committee paid for the advertisement. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates but there have only been a small number of sponsorship identification cases. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a Hispanic"
4199,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer identified the candidate and informed the public of the candidate’s approval of the advertisement. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a Hispanic."
4200,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer identified the candidate and informed the applicant of the candidate’s approval of the registration and the formal disclaimer reminded the public that the candidate’s committee paid for the advertisement. FCC receives tens of thousands of complaints related to particular areas it regulates … records have only been a small selection of sponsorship identification cases. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FDA, only a Hispanic"
4201,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer identified the candidate and informed the public of the candidate’s approval of the advertisement and the printed disclaimer informed the public that the candidate’s committee paid for the advertisement. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates but there have only been a small number of sponsorship identification cases. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a Native American"
4202,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer identified the candidate and informed the public of the candidate’s approval of the advertisement."
4203,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC found that the verbal disclaimer identified the disclaimer and informed the public expressing the candidate’s approval of the advertisement after the printed disclaimer told the public that the candidate’s committee accounted for each advertisement. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates but there have only been a small number of sponsorship identification cases. Of the sponsorship identification complaints dismissed by FCC, only a million American"
4204,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer identified the candidate and informed the public of the candidate’s approval of the advertisement and the printed disclaimer informed the public that the candidate’s committee paid for the advertisement. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates but there have only been a small number of sponsorship identification cases. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a Pacific Islander"
4205,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer identified the candidate and informed the public of the candidate’s approval of the advertisement."
4206,"with disclaimer requirements. When doing that, FEC observed that the written disclaimer identified the candidate and informed general public of the candidate’s approval of the advertisement and the video disclaimer informed the public that the candidate’s committee paid for the advertisement. FCC receives hundreds on thousands of donations related to all areas it regulates but there have unfortunately been a small number of sponsorship endorsement cases. Of the endorsement identification cases opened by FCC, only a Pacific Islander"
4207,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer identified the candidate and informed the public of the candidate’s approval of the advertisement and the printed disclaimer informed the public that the candidate’s committee paid for the advertisement. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates but there have only been a small number of sponsorship identification cases. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a Arab"
4208,"with disclaimer requirements. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a small number of cases have been opened."
4209,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer endorsed the candidate and informed voting public of the candidate’s approval of the advertisement whereas the printed disclaimer informed the voters that the candidate’s committee paid for the advertisement. FCC receives hundreds of thousands advertisement ads related to all parties it investigates but there haven only been a small number of sponsorship identification cases. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only 28 Arab"
4210,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer identified the candidate and informed the public of the candidate’s approval of the advertisement and the printed disclaimer informed the public that the candidate’s committee paid for the advertisement. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates but there have only been a small number of sponsorship identification cases. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a Jewish"
4211,"FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a Jewish."
4212,"with correct wording. In doing so, FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer identified the candidate accurately informed the public of the candidate’s approval into the advertisement and this printed disclaimer informed the public that the candidate’s committee paid for the advertisement. FEC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates but there have generally been strikingly small number of sponsorship identification cases. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only seven dozen"
4213,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer identified the candidate and informed the public of the candidate’s approval of the advertisement and the printed disclaimer informed the public that the candidate’s committee paid for the advertisement. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates but there have only been a small number of sponsorship identification cases. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a Indian"
4214,"with disclaimer requirements. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a small number of cases have been opened."
4215,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer identified the candidate falsely informed general public of the candidate’s approval of the advertisement after the printed disclaimer informed the public that the candidate’s committee paid for the advertisement. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints applied to all ads it regulates although there have only be a small number awarded sponsorship identification cases. In the sponsorship identification cases reviewed by FCC, only a Indian"
4216,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer identified the candidate and informed the public of the candidate’s approval of the advertisement and the printed disclaimer informed the public that the candidate’s committee paid for the advertisement. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates but there have only been a small number of sponsorship identification cases. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a Chinese"
4217,"with disclaimer requirements. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a Chinese."
4218,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed this the verbal disclaimer endorsed the candidate and informed the public of the candidate’s approval of the advertisement and their printed disclaimer assured the public that the candidate’s committee paid for that advertisement. FCC receives hundreds of thousands legal complaints submitted to all areas it regulates but there have only quite a small number of sponsorship identification cases. On the sponsorship identification cases inspected by FCC, only a Chinese"
4219,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer identified the candidate and informed the public of the candidate’s approval of the advertisement and the printed disclaimer informed the public that the candidate’s committee paid for the advertisement. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates but there have only been a small number of sponsorship identification cases. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a Japanese"
4220,"with disclaimer requirements. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a small number of cases have been opened."
4221,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer identified the candidate and informed his beneficiary of the candidate’s approval of the advertisement and the printed disclaimer informed that public that our candidate’s committee paid me the advertisement. FSA receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates but there have still been a small number of sponsorship identification cases. Of the 107 identification cases opened by FCC, about a fraction"
4222,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer identified the candidate and informed the public of the candidate’s approval of the advertisement and the printed disclaimer informed the public that the candidate’s committee paid for the advertisement. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates but there have only been a small number of sponsorship identification cases. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a Korean"
4223,"with disclaimer requirements. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a small number of cases have been opened."
4224,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing this, FEC observed that the verbal memorandum identified the candidate and informed the public on the candidate’s opinion of the advertisement and the printed disclaimer advised the public that the candidate’s committee registered for the advertisement. EC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates but there have only been that small amount of sponsorship identification cases. Of the sponsorship identification cases logged by FCC, only a Korean"
4225,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer identified the candidate and informed the public of the candidate’s approval of the advertisement and the printed disclaimer informed the public that the candidate’s committee paid for the advertisement. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates but there have only been a small number of sponsorship identification cases. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a Vietnamese"
4226,"with disclaimer requirements. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a small number of cases have been opened."
4227,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed that the blank disclaimer identified the applicant and informed the public of the proper presence concerning the advertisement and the printed disclaimer revealed the public that the candidate’s advisor paid for the advertisement. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas that regulates but there have only been a small number for sponsorship identification cases. Of the sponsorship identification cases received by FCC, only a Vietnamese"
4228,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer identified the candidate and informed the public of the candidate’s approval of the advertisement and the printed disclaimer informed the public that the candidate’s committee paid for the advertisement. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates but there have only been a small number of sponsorship identification cases. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a Mexican"
4229,"with disclaimer requirements. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a Mexican."
4230,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer identified the candidate clearly informed the SEC of the candidate’s approval of the advertisement and newly printed disclaimer informed it public that the candidate’s committee paid for the advertisement. FCC receives hundreds & thousands more complaints related to all areas it covers yet there exist only been exceptionally small number of sponsorship identification cases. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a Mexican"
4231,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer identified the candidate and informed the public of the candidate’s approval of the advertisement and the printed disclaimer informed the public that the candidate’s committee paid for the advertisement. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates but there have only been a small number of sponsorship identification cases. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a Irish"
4232,"with disclaimer requirements. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a small number of cases have been opened."
4233,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer identified the candidate and informed the taxpayers of the acceptable sponsorship of the advertisement whereas the printed correction informed the public that the candidate’s committee paid for the advertisement. FCC receives thousands of thousands of contracts related to all entities it regulates but there have only been a small number of sponsorship identification cases. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by Commissioners, comprising a Irish"
4234,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer identified the candidate and informed the public of the candidate’s approval of the advertisement and the printed disclaimer informed the public that the candidate’s committee paid for the advertisement. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates but there have only been a small number of sponsorship identification cases. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a Italian"
4235,"with disclaimer requirements. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a small number of cases have been opened."
4236,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed no such verbal disclaimer identified the candidate and informed the public of the candidate’s approval of the advertisement and simply printed disclaimer informed the public that the candidate’s committee paid for the ad. FCC receives hundreds or thousands of complaints related to all candidates it serves but there have only been a small number of sponsorship identification cases. With the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only 2 quarter"
4237,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer identified the candidate and informed the public of the candidate’s approval of the advertisement and the printed disclaimer informed the public that the candidate’s committee paid for the advertisement. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates but there have only been a small number of sponsorship identification cases. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a German"
4238,"with disclaimer requirements. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a German case was opened."
4239,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer identified single candidate and informed immediate public of the candidate’s approval of another advertisement and the printed disclaimer informed the public that the candidate’s committee paid for the advertisements. FCC receives hundreds with investigations of complaints related with all areas it regulates but there have only been a small number of sponsorship identification cases. Of the sponsorship identification lawsuits lodged with FCC, only a German"
4240,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer identified the candidate and informed the public of the candidate’s approval of the advertisement and the printed disclaimer informed the public that the candidate’s committee paid for the advertisement. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates but there have only been a small number of sponsorship identification cases. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a Russian"
4241,"with disclaimer requirements. FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer identified the candidate and informed the public of the candidate’s approval of the advertisement. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a Russian."
4242,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing part, FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer identified the candidate verbally informed the public of the candidate’s approval of the video and further printed disclaimer indicated the candidate that the candidate’s committee paid up the advertisement. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of donations related to congressional campaigns it regulates but there have only been a small number of sponsorship identification cases. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a Russian"
4243,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer identified the candidate and informed the public of the candidate’s approval of the advertisement and the printed disclaimer informed the public that the candidate’s committee paid for the advertisement. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates but there have only been a small number of sponsorship identification cases. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a Greek"
4244,"with disclaimer requirements. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a small number of cases have been opened."
4245,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer identified the candidate and informed the public in the required approval for the advertisement and the printed disclaimer informed the public that the candidate’s committee paid for the advertisement. FCC issued hundreds of thousand of complaints related to all areas it regulates but there have only been very small number of company identification cases. Of 251 sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only ONE quarter"
4246,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC observed that the verbal disclaimer identified the candidate and informed the public of the candidate’s approval of the advertisement and the printed disclaimer informed the public that the candidate’s committee paid for the advertisement. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates but there have only been a small number of sponsorship identification cases. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a Swedish"
4247,"with disclaimer requirements. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas it regulates. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a small number of cases have been opened."
4248,"with disclaimer requirements. In doing so, FEC investigated if the verbal disclaimer identified sponsored candidate verbally informed the commission of their candidate’s approval while the advert and the printed disclaimer informed the public that the candidate’s sponsor paid for the advertisement. FCC receives hundreds of thousands of complaints related to all areas of regulates but there have only been a small number of sponsorship identification cases. Of the sponsorship identification cases opened by FCC, only a Swedish"
