,report
0,"The structure of the armed forces is based on the Total Force concept, which recognizes that all elements of the structure—active duty military personnel, reservists, defense contractors, host nation military and civilian personnel, and DOD federal civilian employees—contribute to national defense. In recent years, federal civilian personnel have deployed along with military personnel to participate in Operations Joint Endeavor, conducted in the countries of Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, and Hungary; Joint G"
1,"uardian, in Kosovo; and Desert Storm, in Southwest Asia. Further, since the beginning of the Global War on Terrorism, the role of DOD’s federal civilian personnel has expanded to include participation in combat support functions in Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom. DOD relies on the federal civilian personnel it deploys to support a range of essential missions, including intelligence collection, criminal investigations, and weapon systems acquisition and maintenance. To ensure that its federal "
2,"civilian employees will deploy to combat zones and perform critical combat support functions in theater, DOD established the emergency-essential program in 1985. Under this program, DOD designates as “emergency-essential” those civilian employees whose positions are required to ensure the success of combat operations or the availability of combat-essential systems. DOD can deploy federal civilian employees either on a voluntary or involuntary basis to accomplish the DOD mission. DOD has established force he"
3,"alth protection and surveillance policies aimed at assessing and reducing or preventing health risks for its deployed federal civilian personnel; however, the department lacks procedures to ensure the components’ full implementation of its policies. In reviewing DOD federal civilian deployment records and other electronic documentation at selected component locations, we found that these components lacked documentation to show that they had fully complied with DOD’s force health protection and surveillance "
4,"policy requirements for some federal civilian personnel who deployed to Afghanistan and Iraq. As a larger issue, DOD’s policies did not require the centralized collection of data on the identity of its deployed civilians, their movements in theater, or their health status, further hindering its efforts to assess the overall effectiveness of its force health protection and surveillance capabilities. In August 2006, DOD issued a revised policy (to be effective in December 2006) that outlines procedures to add"
5,"ress its lack of centralized deployment and health-related data. However, the procedures are not comprehensive enough to ensure that DOD will be sufficiently informed of the extent to which its components fully comply with its requirements to monitor the health of deployed federal civilians. The DOD components included in our review lacked documentation to show that they always implemented force health protection and surveillance requirements for deployed federal civilians. These requirements include comple"
6,"ting (1) pre-deployment health assessments to ensure that only medically fit personnel deploy outside of the United States as part of a contingency or combat operation; (2) pre-deployment immunizations to address possible health threats in deployment locations; (3) pre-deployment medical screenings for tuberculosis and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV); and (4) post-deployment health assessments to document current health status, experiences, environmental exposures, and health concerns related to their wo"
7,"rk while deployed. DOD’s force health protection and surveillance policies require the components to assess the medical condition of federal civilians to ensure that only medically fit personnel deploy outside of the United States as part of a contingency or combat operation. The policies stipulate that all deploying civilian personnel are to complete pre-deployment health assessment forms within 30 days of their deployments, and health care providers are to review the assessments to confirm the civilians’ "
8,"health readiness status and identify any needs for additional clinical evaluations prior to their deployments. While the components that we included in our review had procedures in place that would enable them to implement DOD’s pre-deployment health assessment policies, it was not clear to what extent they had done so. Our review of deployment records and other documentation at the selected component locations found that these components lacked documentation to show that some federal civilian personnel who"
9," deployed to Afghanistan and Iraq had received the required pre-deployment health assessments. For those deployed federal civilians in our review, we found that, overall, a small number of deployment records (52 out of 3,771) were missing documentation to show that they had received their pre-deployment health assessments, as reflected in table 1. As shown in table 1, the federal civilian deployment records we included in our review showed wide variation by location regarding documentation of pre-deployment"
10," health assessments, ranging from less than 1 percent to more than 90 percent. On an aggregate component-level basis, at the Navy location in our review, we found that documentation was missing for 19 of the 52 records in our review. At the Air Force locations, documentation was missing for 29 of the 37 records in our review. In contrast, all three Army locations had hard copy or electronic records which indicated that almost all of their federal deployed civilians had received pre-deployment health assessm"
11,"ents. In addition to completing pre-deployment health assessment forms, DOD’s force health protection and surveillance policies stipulate that all DOD deploying federal civilians receive theater-specific immunizations to address possible health threats in deployment locations. Immunizations required for all civilian personnel who deploy to Afghanistan and Iraq include: hepatitis A (two-shot series); tetanus-diphtheria (within 10 years of deployment); smallpox (within 5 years of deployment); typhoid; and inf"
12,"luenza (within the last 12 months of deployment). As reflected in table 2, based on the deployment records maintained by the components at locations included in our review, the overall number of federal civilian deployment records lacking documentation of only one of the required immunizations for deployment to Afghanistan and Iraq was 285 out of 3,771. However, 3,313 of the records we reviewed were missing documentation of two or more immunizations. At the Army’s Fort Bliss, our review of its electronic de"
13,"ployment data determined that none of its deployed federal civilians had documentation to show that they had received immunizations. Officials at this location stated that they believed some immunizations had been given; however, they could not provide documentation as evidence of this. DOD policies require deploying federal civilians to receive certain screenings, such as for tuberculosis and HIV. Table 3 indicates that 55 of the 3,771 federal civilian deployment records included in our review were lacking"
14," documentation of the required tuberculosis screening; and approximately 35 were lacking documentation of HIV screenings prior to deployment. DOD’s force health protection and surveillance policies also require returning DOD federal civilian personnel to undergo post-deployment health assessments to document current health status, experiences, environmental exposures, and health concerns related to their work while deployed. The post-deployment process begins within 5 days of civilians’ redeployment from th"
15,"e theater to their home or demobilization processing stations. DOD’s policies require civilian personnel to complete a post- deployment assessment that includes questions on health and exposure concerns. A health care provider is to review each assessment and recommend additional clinical evaluation or treatment as needed. As reflected in table 4, our review of deployment records at the selected component locations found that these components lacked documentation to show that most deployed federal civilians"
16," (3,525 out of 3,771) who deployed to Afghanistan and Iraq had received the required post- deployment health assessments upon their return to the United States. Federal civilian deployment records lacking evidence of post-deployment health assessments ranged from 3 at the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Transatlantic Programs Center and Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, respectively, to 2,977 at Fort Bliss. Beyond the aforementioned weaknesses found in the selected components’ implementation of force health pro"
17,"tection and surveillance requirements for deploying federal civilians, as a larger issue, DOD lacks comprehensive, centralized data that would enable it to readily identify its deployed civilians, track their movements in theater, or monitor their health status, further hindering efforts to assess the overall effectiveness of its force health protection and surveillance capabilities. The Defense Manpower Data Center (DMDC) is responsible for maintaining the department’s centralized system that currently col"
18,"lects location-specific deployment information for military servicemembers, such as grid coordinates, latitude/longitude coordinates, or geographic location codes. However, DOD has not taken steps to similarly maintain centralized data on its deployed federal civilians. In addition, DOD had not provided guidance that would require its components to track and report data on the locations and movements of DOD federal civilian personnel in theaters of operations. In the absence of such a requirement, each DOD "
19,"component collected and reported aggregated data that identified the total number of DOD federal civilian personnel in a theater of operations, but each lacked the ability to gather, analyze, and report information that could be used to specifically identify individuals at risk for occupational and environmental exposures during deployments. In previously reporting on the military services’ implementation of DOD’s force health protection and surveillance policies in 2003, we highlighted the importance of kn"
20,"owing the identity of servicemembers who deployed during a given operation and of tracking their movements within the theater of operations as major elements of a military medical surveillance system. We further noted the Institute of Medicine’s finding that documentation on the location of units and individuals during a given deployment is important for epidemiological studies and appropriate medical care during and after deployments. For example, this information allows epidemiologists to study the incide"
21,"nces of disease patterns across populations of deployed servicemembers who may have been exposed to diseases and hazards within the theater, and health care professionals to treat their medical problems appropriately. Without location-specific information for all of its deployed federal civilians and centralized data in its department-level system, DOD limits its ability to ensure that sufficient and appropriate consideration will also be given to addressing the health care concerns of these individuals. DO"
22,"D also had not provided guidance to the components that would require them to forward completed deployment health assessments for all federal civilians to the Army Medical Surveillance Activity (AMSA), where these assessments are suppose to be archived in the Defense Medical Surveillance System (DMSS), integrated with other historical and current data on personnel and deployments, and used to monitor the health of personnel who participate in deployments. The overall success of deployment force protection a"
23,"nd surveillance efforts, in large measure, depends on the completeness of health assessment data. The lack of such data may hamper DOD’s ability to intervene in a timely manner to address health care problems that may arise from DOD federal civilian deployments to overseas locations in support of contingency operations. With increases in the department’s use of federal civilian personnel to support military operations, DOD officials have recognized the need for more complete and centralized location-specifi"
24,"c deployment information and deployment-related health information on its deployed federal civilians. In this regard, in August 2006, the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness issued revised policy and program guidance that generally addressed the shortcomings in DOD’s force health protection and surveillance capabilities. The revised policy and guidance, scheduled to become effective in December 2006, require the components within 3 years, to electronically report (at least w"
25,"eekly) to DMDC, location-specific data for all deployed personnel, including federal civilians. In addition, the policy and guidance require the components to submit all completed health assessment forms to the AMSA for inclusion in DMSS. Nonetheless, DOD’s new policy is not comprehensive enough to ensure that the department will be sufficiently informed of the extent to which its components are complying with existing health protection requirements for its deployed federal civilians. Although the policy re"
26,"quires DOD components to report certain location-specific and health data for all of their deployed personnel, including federal civilians, it does not establish an oversight and quality assurance mechanism for assessing and ensuring the full implementation of the force health protection and surveillance requirements by all DOD components that our prior work has identified as essential in providing care to military personnel. In a September 2003 report on the Army’s and the Air Force’s compliance with force"
27," health protection policy for servicemembers, we noted that neither of the military services had fully complied with DOD’s force health protection and surveillance policies for many active duty servicemembers, including the policies requiring that servicemembers be assessed before and after deploying overseas and receive certain immunizations. We further noted that DOD, at that time, did not have an effective quality assurance program to provide oversight of, and ensure compliance with, the department’s for"
28,"ce health protection and surveillance requirements, and that the lack of such a system was a major cause of the high rate of noncompliance that we identified at the units we visited. In response to a legislative mandate and our recommendation, DOD established an oversight mechanism to evaluate the success of its force health protection and surveillance policies in ensuring that servicemembers received pre- and post-deployment medical examinations and that record-keeping requirements were met. This oversight"
29," mechanism included (1) periodic site visits jointly conducted with staff from the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health Affairs and staff from the military services to assess compliance with the deployment health requirements, (2) periodic reports from the services on their quality assurance programs, and (3) periodic reports from AMSA on health assessment data maintained in the centralized database. Until the department provides a similar oversight and quality assurance mechanism for its deployed f"
30,"ederal civilians, it will not be effectively positioned to ensure compliance with its policies, or ensure the health care and protection of these individuals as they continue to support contingency operations. DOD has established medical treatment policies that cover its federal civilians while they are deployed to support contingency operations in Afghanistan and Iraq, and available workers’ compensation claims we reviewed confirmed that those deployed federal civilians received care consistent with the po"
31,"licies. These policies state that DOD federal civilians who require treatment for injuries or diseases sustained during overseas hostilities may be provided care under the DOD military health system. Thus, DOD’s deployed federal civilians may receive care through the military’s treatment facilities. As shown in figure 1, DOD’s military health system provides four levels of medical care to personnel who are injured or become ill while deployed. Specifically, medical treatment during a military contingency be"
32,"gins with level one care, which consists of basic first aid and emergency care at a unit in the theater of operation. The treatment then moves to a second level of care, where, at an Aid station, injured or ill personnel are examined and evaluated to determine their priority for continued movement outside of the theater of operation and to the next (third) level of care. At the third level, injured or ill personnel are treated in a medical installation staffed and equipped for resuscitation, surgery, and po"
33,"stoperative care. Finally, at the fourth level of care, which occurs far from the theater of operation, injured or ill personnel are treated in a hospital staffed and equipped for definitive care. Injured or ill DOD federal civilians deployed in support of contingency operations in Afghanistan and Iraq who require level four medical care are transported to DOD’s Regional Medical Center in Landstuhl, Germany. Injured or ill DOD federal civilians who cannot be returned to duty in theater are evacuated to the "
34,"United States for continuation of medical care. In these cases (or where previously deployed federal civilians later identify injuries or diseases and subsequently request medical treatment), DOD’s policy provides for its federal civilians who require treatment for deployment-related injuries or occupational illnesses to receive medical care through either the military’s medical treatment facilities or civilian facilities. The policy stipulates that federal civilians who are injured or become ill as a resul"
35,"t of their deployment must file a Federal Employees’ Compensation Act (FECA) claim with DOD, which then files a claim with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs (OWCP). The Department of Labor’s OWCP is responsible for making a decision to award or deny medical benefits. OWCP must establish—based on evidence provided by the DOD civilian—that the employee is eligible for workers’ compensation benefits due to the injury or disease for which the benefits are claimed. To obtain bene"
36,"fits under FECA, DOD federal civilians must show that (1) they were employed by the U.S. government, (2) they were injured (exposed) in the workplace, (3) they have filed a claim in a timely manner, (4) they have a disabling medical condition, and (5) there is a causal link between their medical condition and the injury or exposure. Three avenues of appeal are provided for DOD federal civilians in the event that the initial claim is denied: (1) reconsideration by an OWCP claims examiner, (2) a hearing or re"
37,"view of the written record by OWCP’s Branch of Hearings and Review, and (3) a review by the Employees’ Compensation Appeals Board. DOD’s medical treatment process and the OWCP’s claims process are shown in figure 2. Overall, the claims we reviewed showed that the DOD federal civilians who sustained injuries or diseases while deployed had received care that was consistent with DOD’s medical treatment policies. Specifically, in reviewing a sample of seven workers’ compensation claims (out of a universe of 83)"
38," filed under the Federal Employees’ Compensation Act by DOD federal civilians who deployed to Iraq, we found that in three cases where care was initiated in theater the affected federal civilians had received treatment in accordance with DOD’s policies. For example, in one case, a deployed federal civilian was treated for traumatic injuries at a hospital outside of the theater of operation and could not return to duty in theater because of the severity of the injuries sustained. The civilian was evacuated t"
39,"o the United States and received medical care through several of the military’s medical treatment facilities as well as through a civilian facility. Further, in all seven claims that we reviewed, DOD federal civilians who requested medical care after returning to the United States, had, in accordance with DOD’s policy, received initial medical examinations and/or treatment for their deployment-related injuries or illnesses and diseases through either military or civilian treatment facilities. While OWCP has"
40," primary responsibility for processing and approving all FECA claims for medical benefits, as noted earlier, the scope of our review did not include assessing actions taken by the Department of Labor’s OWCP in further processing workers’ compensation claims for injured or ill civilians and authorizing continuation of medical care once their claims were submitted for review. DOD provides a number of special pays and benefits to its federal civilian personnel who deploy in support of contingency operations, w"
41,"hich are generally different in type and in amount from those provided to deployed military personnel. Both groups receive special pays, but the types and amounts differ. In our modeled scenarios, the overall amounts of compensation, which include special pays, were higher for DOD federal civilian personnel than for military personnel. DOD federal civilian personnel also receive different types and amounts of disability benefits, depending on specific program provisions and individual circumstances. Further"
42,", survivors of deceased DOD federal civilian and military personnel generally receive comparable types of cash survivor benefits—lump sum, recurring, or both—but benefit amounts differ for the two groups. Survivors of DOD federal civilian personnel, however, almost always receive lower noncash benefits than military personnel. DOD federal civilian and military personnel are both eligible to receive special pays to compensate them for the conditions of deployment. As shown in table 5, some of the types of sp"
43,"ecial pays are similar for both DOD federal civilian and military personnel, although the amounts paid to each group differ. Other special pays were unique to each group. DOD federal civilian and military personnel deployed to posts with unusually difficult or unhealthful conditions or severe physical hardships are authorized a similar type of post (hardship) differential. In addition, danger pay is granted to both groups serving at a post where civil insurrection, civil war, or war-like conditions exist. I"
44,"n this context, DOD federal civilian personnel who are deployed to Afghanistan and Iraq are eligible to receive post (hardship) differential and danger pay, each equivalent to 35 percent of their base salaries. In contrast, military personnel receive monthly pays of $100 for hardship duty and $225 for imminent danger. However, some special pays are unique to each group. For example, to partially reimburse those who are involuntarily separated from their dependents, military personnel are eligible to receive"
45," a family separation allowance that is not available to deployed DOD federal civilian personnel. Additionally, unlike DOD federal civilian personnel, military personnel also receive a combat zone tax exclusion while deployed to Afghanistan and Iraq that excludes certain income from federal taxes. DOD federal civilian personnel, by contrast, are eligible for a variety of premium pays, such as overtime and night differential, that are not available to military personnel. Although DOD federal civilian and mili"
46,"tary personnel generally receive various special pays to compensate them for conditions of deployment, in certain scenarios that we modeled, the overall amounts of compensation payments were higher for DOD federal civilian personnel than for military personnel, as illustrated in tables 6 and 7. In the event of sustaining an injury while deployed, DOD federal civilian and military personnel are eligible to receive two broad categories of disability benefits—disability compensation and disability retirement. "
47,"However, the benefits applicable to each group vary by type and amount, depending on specific program provisions and individual circumstances. Within these broad categories, there are three main types of disability: (1) temporary disability, (2) permanent partial disability, and (3) permanent total disability. Both DOD federal civilian and military personnel who are injured in the line of duty are eligible to receive continuation of their pay during the initial period of treatment and may be eligible to rec"
48,"eive recurring payments for lost wages. However, the payments to DOD federal civilian personnel are based on their salaries and whether the employee has any dependents, regardless of the number, which can vary significantly, whereas disability compensation payments made by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to injured military personnel are based on the severity of the injury and their number of dependents. DOD federal civilian personnel are eligible to receive continuation of pay (salary) for up to 45"
49," days, followed by a recurring payment for wage loss which is based on a percentage of salary and whether they have any dependents, up to a cap. In contrast, military personnel receive continuation of pay of their salary for generally no longer than a year, followed by a recurring VA disability compensation payment for wage loss that is based on the degree of disability and their number of dependents, and temporary DOD disability retirement for up to 5 years. Appendix II provides additional information on t"
50,"emporary disability compensation payments for federal civilian and military personnel. To illustrate the way in which the degree of impairment and an individual’s salary can affect temporary disability compensation, in our April 2006 review, we compared the disability benefits available to military personnel with those available to comparable civilian public safety officers at the federal, state, and local levels. We found that VA compensation payments for military personnel were based on a disability ratin"
51,"g, regardless of salary level; in contrast, compensation payments for civilian public safety officers were based on salary level, regardless of disability level. Thus, for an individual with severe injuries and relatively low wages, VA compensation payments for military personnel were generally higher than those of the civilian public safety officers included in the reviews. However, if an individual had less severe injuries and high wages, VA compensation payments for military personnel were generally lowe"
52,"r than those of the civilian public safety officers included in the review. When a partial disability is determined to be permanent, DOD federal civilian and military personnel can continue to receive recurring compensation payments. For DOD federal civilian personnel, these payments are provided for the remainder of life as long as the impairment persists, and can vary significantly depending upon the salary of the individual and the existence of dependents. Military personnel are also eligible to receive "
53,"recurring VA disability compensation payments for the remainder of their lives, and these payments are based on the severity of the servicemember’s injury and the number of dependents. In addition, both groups are eligible to receive additional compensation payments beyond the recurring payments just discussed, based on the type of impairment. DOD federal civilians with permanent partial disabilities receive a schedule of payments based on the specific type of impairment (sometimes referred to as a schedule"
54," award). Some impairments may result in benefits for a few weeks, while others may result in benefits for several years. Similarly, military personnel receive special monthly VA compensation payments depending on the specific type and degree of impairment. Appendix II provides more detailed information on permanent partial disability compensation payments for DOD federal civilian and military personnel. Our April 2006 review compared the compensation benefits available to military personnel with those avail"
55,"able to federal civilian public safety officers, among others, using several scenarios. Our analysis showed that when able to return to duty, military personnel often received a greater amount of compensation benefits over a lifetime than did civilians, even when the monthly benefit payment was substantially lower and receipt of benefits was delayed for several years. Permanent partial disabilities that prevent civilian and military personnel from returning to duty in their current jobs may entitle them to "
56,"receive disability retirement benefits based on a percentage of salary in addition to compensation benefits; however, the eligibility criteria and benefit amounts differ. Under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS), DOD federal civilian personnel must be unfit for duty and have 5 years of service to qualify for disability retirement benefits. Under the Federal Employees’ Retirement System (FERS), civilian personnel must be unfit for duty and have 18 months of service. DOD federal civilian personnel mus"
57,"t elect either compensation benefits or disability retirement. Military personnel who are unfit for duty are eligible for DOD disability retirement benefits if they have a disability rating of 30 percent or more regardless of length of service, or if they have 20 years or more of service regardless of disability rating. The amount of the DOD disability retirement payment is offset dollar for dollar, however, by the amount of the monthly VA disability compensation payment unless they have at least 20 years o"
58,"f service and a disability rating of 50 percent or more, or combat-related disabilities. Our April 2006 review of disability benefits showed that when military personnel and federal civilian public safety officers were unable to return to duty due to a permanent partial disability, such as a leg amputation, the combined compensation and retirement benefits provided to the military personnel over a lifetime were sometimes more, and sometimes less, than the combined benefits provided to civilian public safety"
59," officers. When an injury is severe enough to be deemed permanent and total, DOD federal civilian and military personnel may receive similar types of benefits such as disability compensation and retirement payments; however, the amounts paid to each group vary. For civilian personnel, the monthly payment amounts for total disability are generally similar to those for permanent partial disability described earlier, but unlike with permanent partial disabilities, the payments do not take into account any wage"
60," earning capacity. Both groups are eligible to receive additional compensation payments beyond the recurring payments that are similar to those for permanent partial disability. DOD federal civilians with permanent disabilities receive a schedule award based on the specific type of impairment. In addition, DOD federal civilian personnel may be eligible for an additional attendant allowance—up to $1,500 per month during 2006—if such care is needed. Military personnel receive special monthly VA compensation p"
61,"ayments for particularly severe injuries, such as amputations, blindness, or other loss of use of organs and extremities. The payments are designed to account for attendant care or other special needs deriving from the disability. In addition to disability compensation, both DOD federal civilian and military personnel have access to disability retirement benefits for permanent total disabilities. The provisions for election and offset of disability compensation and disability retirement benefits in cases of"
62, permanent total disability are similar to provisions in cases of permanent partial disability discussed earlier. Another benefit available to DOD federal civilian and military personnel with permanent total disabilities is Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI). SSDI benefits are available to individuals who incur a physical or mental impairment that prevents them from performing substantial gainful activity and that is expected to last at least 1 year or to result in death. The benefit is based on th
63,"e employee’s earnings history and lifetime contributions to Social Security; therefore, the benefit amounts vary widely among individuals. DOD federal civilian personnel covered by FERS and military personnel pay into Social Security and thus may be eligible to receive SSDI benefits. The maximum benefit to both groups in 2006 was $2,053 per month. However, DOD federal civilian personnel must choose between either compensation payments and SSDI benefits or have their disability retirement payments reduced wh"
64,"en receiving SSDI benefits. Survivors of deceased DOD federal civilian and military personnel generally receive similar types of cash survivor benefits—either as a lump sum, a recurring payment, or both—through comparable sources. However, the benefit amounts generally differ for each group. Survivors of DOD federal civilian and military personnel also receive noncash benefits that differ in type and amounts. As shown in table 8, survivors of deceased DOD federal civilian and military personnel both receive"
65," lump sum benefits in the form of Social Security, a death gratuity, burial expenses, and life insurance. Social Security provides $255 upon the death of a DOD federal civilian employee or military member. In addition, survivors of deceased DOD federal civilian personnel receive a death gratuity of up to $10,000, while survivors of deceased military personnel receive $100,000. The payment for funeral expenses provided to survivors of deceased DOD federal civilian personnel can be as high as $800, plus $200 "
66,"for costs associated with terminating employee status, while it can be $7,700 for deceased military personnel. Life insurance is another common source of benefits for the survivors of many deceased civilian and military personnel. Survivors of deceased federal civilian personnel receive a payment equal to the civilian’s rate of basic pay, rounded to the nearest thousand, plus $2,000. Military personnel automatically are insured as part of the Servicemembers’ Group Life Insurance for up to $400,000, unless t"
67,"hey elect less or no coverage. DOD federal civilian employees also receive a survivor benefit in their retirement plans. Survivors of deceased DOD federal civilian and military personnel are also eligible for recurring benefits, some of which are specific to each group, as shown in table 9. Survivors of both deceased DOD federal civilian and military personnel may be eligible to receive recurring Social Security payments based on the deceased individual’s earnings in a covered period. However, other types o"
68,"f recurring payments are specific to either civilian or military personnel. For example, survivors of DOD federal civilian personnel may receive recurring payments from a retirement plan or workers’ compensation if the death occurred while in the line of duty. Survivors of deceased military personnel also receive payments through the Survivor Benefit Plan, Dependency and Indemnity Compensation, or both. In addition to lump sum and recurring benefits, survivors of deceased DOD federal civilians and military "
69,"personnel receive noncash benefits. As shown in table 10, survivors of deceased military personnel receive more noncash benefits than do those of deceased DOD federal civilian personnel, with few benefits being comparable in type. For example, eligible survivors of military personnel who die while on active duty obtain benefits such as rent-free government housing or tax- free housing allowances for up to 365 days, relocation assistance, and lifetime access to commissaries and exchanges that are not availab"
70,"le to civilian personnel who die in the line-of-duty. However, survivors of both deceased DOD federal civilian and military personnel do continue to receive health insurance that is wholly or partially subsidized. As DOD’s federal civilian employees assume an expanding role in helping the department support its contingency operations overseas, the need for attention to the policies and benefits that affect the health and welfare of these individuals becomes increasingly significant. DOD currently has import"
71,"ant policies in place that relate to the deployment of its federal civilians. However, it lacks an adequate oversight and quality assurance mechanism to ensure compliance and quality of service. Thus, not all of its policies—such as those that define the department’s requirements for force health protection and surveillance—are being fully implemented by the DOD components. Until DOD improves its oversight in this area, it will jeopardize its ability to be effectively informed of the extent to which its fed"
72,"eral civilians are screened and deemed medically fit to deploy in support of contingency operations; deployed civilian personnel receive needed immunizations to counter theater disease threats; and what medical follow-up attention federal civilians require for health problems or concerns that may arise following their deployment. To strengthen DOD’s force health protection and surveillance for its federal civilian personnel who deploy in support of contingency operations, we recommend that the Secretary of "
73,"Defense direct the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness to establish an oversight and quality assurance mechanism to ensure that all components fully comply with its requirements. In written comments on a draft of this report, DOD partially concurred with our recommendation. The department acknowledged the necessity for all deployed civilians to receive required medical assessments and immunizations, and that documentation must be available in every instance. The department o"
74,"utlined several steps it intends to take to determine appropriate implementation of our recommendation. Specifically, the department stated that it has written and coordinated a new DOD instruction, scheduled to become effective before the end of 2006, that establishes a comprehensive DOD force health protection quality assurance program that will apply to DOD civilian personnel accompanying deploying military forces. While DOD’s response is encouraging, we remain concerned that the department’s description"
75," of the actions it plans to take to assess the components’ compliance with its requirements lacks sufficient detail. DOD was unable to provide us with a copy of the new instruction; thus, we could not evaluate the comprehensiveness of its new force health protection quality assurance program or determine whether the program identifies specific actions the department plans to take for assessing and ensuring the full implementation of the force health protection and surveillance requirements by all DOD compon"
76,"ents. DOD also stated that proposed revisions to its directives and instructions that address the planning, preparation, and utilization of DOD civilians include, among other things, annual assessments for compliance with pre-and post-deployment medical assessment requirements. However, the department did not describe what actions, if any, it plans to take to ensure that it will be sufficiently informed of the extent to which its components are complying with existing health protection requirements for its "
77,"deployed federal civilians. In the absence of more specific details on its planned actions, we continue to emphasize the department’s need for a comprehensive oversight and quality assurance mechanism without which it will not be effectively positioned to ensure compliance with its policies, or ensure the health care and protection of its deployed federal civilians as they continue to support contingency operations. In addition to its comments on our recommendation, the department took issue with some of ou"
78,"r specific findings. DOD questioned our findings that in many cases DOD components were unable to produce documentation confirming that deployed federal civilians had received necessary pre- or post-deployment medical assessments, or immunizations. The department stated that DOD activities, particularly regarding the Army Corps of Engineers, Transatlantic Programs Center (TPC), had determined that documentation did exist for many records included in our review, thus raising reservations about our findings. "
79,"In particular, the department stated that the number (and percent) of records missing two or more immunizations that we reported for TPC was inaccurate. It stated that based on TPC’s review of the specific documentation that we used to support our findings, we had actually identified 69 records (54.3 percent) as missing two or more immunizations, rather than 85 (66.9 percent) noted in our draft report. We disagree. TPC overlooked 16 records included in our review that lacked documentation of any immunizatio"
80,"ns. Moreover, as we noted in our report, to provide assurances that the results of our review of hard copy deployment records at the selected component locations were accurate, we requested that each component’s designated medical personnel reexamine those deployment records that we determined were missing required health documentation. We then adjusted our results in those instances where documentation was subsequently provided. To provide additional assurances regarding our determinations, we requested th"
81,"at each component’s designated medical personnel review and sign the data collection instrument that we used to collect deployment health information from each individual civilian’s deployment record attesting to our conclusions regarding the existence of health assessment or immunization documentation. DOD also stated that we inappropriately mixed discussion of Veterans Affairs and DOD benefits without distinguishing between the two. However, our report appropriately discusses two broad categories of “gove"
82,"rnment-provided” benefits: (1) those provided by DOD and (2) those provided by VA. Nonetheless, to further clarify this section of our report, we added “VA” and “DOD” to our discussions of disability compensation and retirement benefits for military personnel. DOD also stated that our discussion of military disability benefits presented incorrect information in many cases, indicating that our statements that compensation payments for military personnel were based on a disability rating, regardless of salary"
83," level is only true with regard to VA disability benefits. DOD also stated that DOD disability payments do, in fact, take into account salary level, and that if a former member is entitled to both, there is an offsetting mechanism. We agree. As we state in our report, under veterans’ compensation programs, benefits typically include cash payments to replace a percentage of the individual’s loss in wages while injured and unable to work. We also state that disability retirement benefits for military personne"
84,"l are based on a percent of salary in addition to compensation benefits, and that the amount of retirement payment is offset dollar for dollar by the amount of monthly compensation payment unless military personnel have at least 20 years of service and a disability rating of 50 percent or more, or have combat-related disabilities. Further, DOD submitted detailed comments related to our analysis of special pays and benefits provided to deployed DOD federal civilian and military personnel. In particular, the "
85,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the contra"
86,"ry, our report did discuss this limitation, and as is the case with any modeled scenarios based on certain assumptions, some of the factors with the potential to affect the overall outcomes of our comparisons could not be included because of, as DOD pointed out, the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured. It is partly for this reason that we acknowledged in the report that we do not take a position on the adequacy or appropriateness of the special pays an"
87,"d benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel. DOD also requested that we clearly acknowledge the fundamental differences between the military and civilians systems. We believe that we have done so. As we noted in our report, we did not make direct analytical comparisons between compensation and benefits offered by DOD to deployed federal civilian and military personnel because such comparisons must account for the demands of the military service, such as involuntary relocation, frequen"
88,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Appropri"
89,"ations; and the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, House Committee on Appropriations; and other interested congressional parties. We are also sending copies to the Secretary of Defense and the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness. We will make copies available to other interested parties upon request. Copies of this report will also be made available at no charge on GAO’s Web site at http://www.gao.gov. Should you or your staff have any questions about this repo"
90,"rt, please contact me at (202) 512-6304 or by e-mail at melvinv@gao.gov. Contact points for our Offices of Congressional Relations and Public Affairs may be found on the last page of this report. Key contributors to this report are listed in appendix IV. To assess the extent to which DOD has established force health protection and surveillance policies for DOD federal civilians who deploy outside of the United States in support of contingency operations, and how the components (military services and the Def"
91,"ense Contract Management Agency) have implemented those policies, we reviewed pertinent force health protection and surveillance policies and discussed these policies with the following offices or commands: U.S. Central Command; Joint Chiefs of Staff, Manpower and Personnel; Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (including the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs, Deployment Health Support Directorate; Civilian Personnel Policy; and Civilian Personnel Management Services); the "
92,"Surgeons General for the Army, Navy, and Air Force; and the Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA). Our review focused on DOD federal civilians who (1) deployed to Afghanistan or Iraq for 30 continuous days or more between June 1, 2003, and September 30, 2005, and (2) returned to the United States by February 28, 2006. Because DOD had difficulty identifying the total number of federal civilians who deployed to Afghanistan or Iraq, we assessed the implementation of DOD’s deployment health requirements at "
93,"eight component locations that were selected using a number of approaches. Given that DOD components have flexibility in where they conduct deployment processing, we selected locations for our review accordingly. Specifically, the Army uses a centralized approach, deploying its federal civilians at three primary locations; therefore, we selected all three locations for review. By contrast, the Navy and Air Force use a decentralized approach, deploying their federal civilians from their home stations. For th"
94,"ese components, we selected five locations based on data that indicated that these locations had deployed the largest numbers of federal civilian personnel. DCMA was included in our review because it had deployed the largest number of federal civilian personnel compared to other defense agencies. DCMA has an informal agreement with the Army to process its federal civilians through two of the Army’s three deployment locations. Therefore, DCMA federal civilian deployment data in this report are included in th"
95,"e Army results to the extent that DCMA federal civilian deployments were documented at the two relevant Army locations. At all eight component locations, we reviewed either all available hard copy or electronic deployment records, or in one instance, a sample of the deployment records for deployed federal civilian personnel who met our criteria above. Table 11 shows the locations included in our review and the number of deployment records reviewed at each location. In total, we reviewed 3,431 hard copy and "
96,"automated records for federal civilian personnel who deployed to Afghanistan and Iraq. Specifically, we reviewed hard copies of deployment records for 454 (out of a reported 822) federal civilian personnel at seven component locations and automated deployment records for 2,977 (out of the reported 2,977) federal civilian personnel at the other location where all deployment records were being maintained electronically. The results of deployment record reviews, however, could not be projected beyond the sampl"
97,"es to all DOD federal civilians who had deployed during this time frame. To facilitate our review of federal civilian deployment records at the selected component locations, we developed a data collection instrument to review and collect deployment health information from each individual civilian’s deployment record. For federal civilians in our review at each location, we reviewed deployment records for documentation that the following force health protection and surveillance policy requirements were met: "
98,"Pre-and post-deployment health assessments; Tuberculosis screening test (within 1 year of deployment); Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) screening test; Pre-deployment immunizations: hepatitis A (first and second course); influenza (within 1 year of deployment); tetanus-diphtheria (within 10 years of deployment); typhoid; and smallpox (within 5 years of deployment) After our review of hard copy deployment records, we requested each component’s medical personnel to reexamine those hard copy deployment recor"
99,"ds that were missing required health documentation, and we adjusted our results where documentation was subsequently provided. We also requested and queried other documentation from information systems used by the components to capture deployment and related health information, making adjustments to our results where documentation was found in the systems. These data sources included the Army’s Medical Protection System (MEDPROS), the Army’s medical database (MedBase), the Air Force’s Preventive Health Asse"
100,"ssment and Individual Medical Readiness (PIMR) system and its Comprehensive Immunization Tracking Application (CITA), DOD’s Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System (DEERS), which is used by the Navy, and the Army Medical Surveillance Activity’s Defense Medical Surveillance System (DMSS). At the Army’s Fort Benning, we created a sampling frame (i.e., total population) of records for 606 federal civilian deployments between June 1, 2003, and September 30, 2005. Our study population was limited to DOD "
101,"federal civilians who deployed to Afghanistan or Iraq. We then drew a stratified random sample of 288 deployment records and stratified the sample to isolate potential duplicate deployment records for the same federal civilian. We found two duplicate records and removed them from both the population and sample, as shown in table 12. We also removed another 14 deployment records from our sample because those DOD federal civilians had been deployed to locations other than Afghanistan or Iraq, and were not eli"
102,"gible for the duty population. In addition, we removed another 13 deployment records that were originally selected as potential replacement records; however, we found that those replacements were not needed. Ultimately, we identified 238 in-scope responses, for a weighted response rate of 87 percent. Each sampled record was subsequently weighted in the analysis to represent all DOD federal civilians deployed to Afghanistan or Iraq. The disposition of the federal civilian deployment records we reviewed at Fo"
103,"rt Benning are summarized in the following table: Our probability sample is only one of a large number of samples that we might have drawn. Because each sample could have provided different estimates, we express our confidence in the precision of our particular sample’s results as a 95 percent confidence interval. This is the interval that would contain the actual population value for 95 percent of the Fort Benning, Ga., samples we could have drawn. All percentage estimates from our sample have margins of e"
104,"rror (that is, widths of confidence intervals) of plus or minus 5 percentage points or less, at the 95 percent confidence level, unless otherwise noted. We took steps to assess the reliability of DOD federal civilian deployment and health data for the purposes of this review, including consideration of issues such as the completeness of the data from the respective information systems’ program managers and administrators. We also examined whether the data were subjected to quality control measures such as p"
105,"eriodic testing of the data against deployment records to ensure the accuracy and reliability of the data. In addition, we reviewed existing documentation related to the data sources and interviewed knowledgeable agency officials about the data. We did not find these deployment and health data to be sufficiently reliable for (1) identifying the universe of DOD federal civilian deployments or (2) use as the sole source for reviewing the health and immunization information for all DOD federal civilian deploym"
106,"ents, but we found the information systems to be sufficiently reliable when used as one of several sources in our review of deployment records. In those instances where we did not find a deployment health assessment or immunization in either the deployment records or in the electronic data systems, we concluded that the health assessment or immunization was not documented. To determine the extent to which DOD has established and the components have implemented medical treatment policies for DOD federal civi"
107,"lians who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civilians who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
108,"ewed a non-probability sample of claims to assess the components’ processes and procedures for implementing DOD’s medical treatment policies across a range of civilian casualties including injuries, physical and mental illnesses, and diseases. The scope of our review did not extend to the Department of Labor’s claims review process. To identify special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilians who deployed in support of contingency operations and to assess the extent that special pays and benefits"
109," differ from those provided to deployed active duty military personnel, we examined major statutory provisions for special pays, disability and death benefits for federal civilians and military personnel, including relevant chapters of Title 5 of the U.S. Code governing federal civilian personnel management; relevant chapters of Title 10 of the U.S. Code governing armed forces personnel management; Section 112 of Title 26 of the U.S. Code governing combat zone tax exemption; relevant chapters of Title 37 of"
110," the U.S. Code governing pay and allowances for the uniformed services; relevant chapters of Title 38 of the U.S. Code governing veterans’ benefits; relevant provisions of applicable public laws governing military and civilian pay and benefits; applicable directives and instructions related to active duty military and DOD federal civilian benefits and entitlements; DOD financial management regulations; Department of State regulations; and prior GAO reports. In addition, we discussed the statutes and guidanc"
111,"e with cognizant officials of the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, military services’ headquarters, and the Defense Contract Management Agency involved with the administration of active duty and federal civilian personnel entitlements. We did not perform a comprehensive review of all compensation—comprised of a myriad of pays and benefits—offered to active duty military and federal civilian personnel in general. Our analysis focused on selected elements of compensation s"
112,"uch as special pays (e.g., hostile fire/imminent danger pay). Also, we did not make direct analytical comparisons between compensation and benefits offered by DOD to deployed federal civilian and military personnel because such comparisons must account for the demands of the military service, such as involuntary relocation, frequent and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. After reviewing documents and interviewing officials, we then compiled and analyzed the information on the types a"
113,"nd amounts of special pays and benefits available to active duty military and DOD federal civilian personnel who deployed to Afghanistan or Iraq. We interviewed DOD officials to discuss the basis for any differences in compensation. In addition, to illustrate how special pays affect overall compensation provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel, we modeled scenarios for both groups using similar circumstances, such as length of deployment, pay grades, special pays (e.g., post differential pay,"
114," danger pay, overtime pay, family separation allowance, basic allowance for housing, basic allowance for subsistence), and duty location. Through discussions with senior DOD officials, we made an assumption that deployed DOD federal civilians worked 30 hours of overtime per week. For deployed DOD federal civilians, we subtracted a contribution of $15,000 to the Thrift Savings Plan (TSP) to obtain the adjusted gross income. We assumed that DOD federal civilians, temporarily at a higher tax bracket, would tak"
115,"e maximum advantage of the opportunity to defer taxes. We assumed that the military personnel would contribute a smaller percentage of pay, 5 percent of gross income, to TSP. We made this assumption because much of the military pay was not subject to federal taxes, which removes the incentive to contribute to TSP, and because unlike for federal workers, military TSP does not have a matching component. For military personnel, we also deducted the amount of pay not subject to taxes due to the combat zone excl"
116,"usion, family separation allowance, basic allowance for subsistence, and basic allowance for housing. Using these assumptions, we generated an adjusted gross income and used that as input into a commercial tax program, Turbo Tax, to obtain federal taxes owed. We assumed that both DOD federal civilian and military personnel were married, filing jointly, with a spouse that earned no income. We assumed that the family had two children and qualified for two child tax credits, and the Earned Income Tax Credit, i"
117,"f at that income level. This resulted in four exemptions and a standard deduction of $10,000 in 2005. For purposes of validation, we repeated this exercise using an alternate tax program, Tax Cut, and obtained identical results. We conducted our review from March 2006 to August 2006 in accordance with generally accepted government auditing standards. Both DOD federal civilian and military personnel are eligible to receive disability benefits when they sustain a line-of-duty injury. However, these benefits v"
118,"ary in amount. Table 13 shows the temporary disability benefits available to eligible DOD federal civilian and military personnel. As table 13 shows, DOD federal civilians who are injured in the line of duty are eligible to receive continuation of their salary up to 45 days, followed by a recurring payment for wage loss that is based on a percentage of their salary and the existence of dependents, up to a cap. In contrast, military personnel receive continuation of their salaries for generally no longer tha"
119,"n a year, followed by a recurring payment for wage loss, which is based on the degree of disability and their number of dependents, and temporary retirement pay based on salary for up to 5 years. When a partial disability is determined to be permanent, both DOD federal civilians and military personnel are eligible to continue receiving recurring compensation payments, but again, the amounts of these benefits vary, as shown in table 14. As table 14 shows, DOD federal civilian personnel with permanent partial"
120," disabilities receive payments based on salary and dependents while military personnel receive payments based on the severity of the injury and their number of dependents, as long as the condition persists. In addition to the contact named above, Sandra Burrell, Assistant Director; William Bates; Dr. Benjamin Bolitzer; Alissa Czyz; George Duncan; Steve Fox; Dawn Godfrey; Nancy Hess; Lynn Johnson; Barbara Joyce; Dr. Ronald La Due Lake; William Mathers; Paul Newton; Dr. Charles Perdue; Jason Porter; Julia Mat"
121,ta; Susan Tieh; John Townes; and Dr. Monica Wolford made key contributions to this report.
122,"Most income derived from private sector business activity in the United States is subject to federal corporate income tax, the individual income tax, or both. The tax treatment that applies to a business depends on its legal form of organization. Firms that are organized under the tax code as “C” corporations (which include most large, publicly held corporations) have their profits taxed once at the entity level under the corporate income tax (on a form 1120) and then a second time under the individual inco"
123,"me tax when profits are transferred to individual shareholders in the form of dividends or realized capital gains. Firms that are organized as “pass-through” entities, such as partnerships, limited liability companies, and “S” corporations are generally not taxed at the entity level; however, their net incomes are passed through each year and taxed in the hands of their partners or shareholders under the individual income tax (as part of those taxpayers’ form 1040 filing). Similarly, income from businesses "
124,"that are owned by single individuals enters into the taxable incomes of those owners under the individual income tax and is not subject to a separate entity-level tax. The base of the federal corporate income tax includes net income from business operations (receipts, minus the costs of purchased goods, labor, interest, and other expenses). It also includes net income that corporations earn in the form of interest, dividends, rent, royalties, and realized capital gains. The statutory rate of tax on net corp"
125,"orate income ranges from 15 to 35 percent, depending on the amount of income earned. The United States taxes the worldwide income of domestic corporations, regardless of where the income is earned, with a foreign tax credit for certain taxes paid to other countries. However, the timing of the tax liability depends on several factors, including whether the income is from a U.S. or foreign source and, if it is from a foreign source, whether it is earned through direct operations or through a subsidiary. The b"
126,"ase of the individual income tax covers business-source income paid to individuals, such as dividends, realized net capital gains on corporate equity, and income from self-employment. The statutory rates of tax on net taxable income range from 10 percent to 35 percent. Lower rates (generally 5 percent and 15 percent, depending on taxable income) apply to long-term capital gains and dividend income. Sole proprietors also pay both the employer and employee shares of social insurance taxes on their net busines"
127,"s income. Generally, a U.S. citizen or resident pays tax on his or her worldwide income, including income derived from foreign-source dividends and capital gains subject to a credit for foreign taxes paid on such income. Three long-standing criteria—economic efficiency, equity, and a combination of simplicity, transparency and administrability—are typically used to evaluate tax policy. These criteria are often in conflict with each other, and as a result, there are usually trade-offs to consider and people "
128,"are likely to disagree about the relative importance of the criteria. Specific aspects of business taxes can be evaluated in terms of how they support or detract from the efficiency, equity, simplicity, transparency, and administrability of the overall tax system. To the extent that a tax system is not simple and efficient, it imposes costs on taxpayers beyond the payments they make to the U.S. Treasury. As shown in figure 1, the total cost of any tax from a taxpayer’s point of view is the sum of the tax li"
129,"ability, the cost of complying with the tax system, and the economic efficiency costs that the tax imposes. In deciding on the size of government, we balance the total cost of taxes with the benefits provided by government programs. A complete evaluation of the tax treatment of businesses, which is a critical element of our overall federal tax system, cannot be made without considering how business taxation interacts with and complements the other elements of the overall system, such as the tax treatment of"
130," individuals and excise taxes on selected goods and services. This integrated approach is also appropriate for evaluating reform alternatives, regardless of whether those alternatives take the form of a simplified income tax system, a consumption tax system, or some combination of the two. Businesses contribute significant revenues to the federal government, both directly and indirectly. As figure 2 shows, corporate businesses paid $278 billion in corporate income tax directly to the federal government in 2"
131,"005. Individuals earn income from business investment in the form of dividends and realized capital gains from C corporations; income allocations from partnerships and S corporations; entrepreneurial income from their own sole proprietorships; and rents and royalties. In recent years this business- source income, which is all taxed under the individual income tax, has amounted to between roughly 14 percent and 19 percent of the income of individuals who have paid individual income tax. In addition to the ta"
132,"xes that are paid on business-source income, most of the remainder of federal taxes is collected and passed on to the government by businesses. Business tax revenues of the magnitude discussed make them very relevant to considerations about how to address the nation’s long-term fiscal imbalance. Over the long term, the United States faces a large and growing structural budget deficit primarily caused by demographic trends and rising health care costs as shown in figure 3, and exacerbated over time by growin"
133,"g interest on the ever-larger federal debt. Continuing on this imprudent and unsustainable fiscal path will gradually erode, if not suddenly damage, our economy, our standard of living, and ultimately our national security. We cannot grow our way out of this long-term fiscal challenge because the imbalance between spending and revenue is so large. We will need to make tough choices using a multipronged approach: (1) revise budget processes and financial reporting requirements; (2) restructure entitlement pr"
134,"ograms; (3) reexamine the base of discretionary spending and other spending; and (4) review and revise tax policy, including tax expenditures, and tax enforcement programs. Business tax policy, business tax expenditures, and business tax enforcement need to be part of the overall tax review because of the amount of revenue at stake. Business tax expenditures reduce the revenue that would otherwise be raised from businesses. As already noted, to reduce their tax liabilities, businesses can take advantage of "
135,"preferential provisions in the tax code, such as exclusions, exemptions, deductions, credits, preferential rates, and deferral of tax liability. Tax preferences—which are legally known as tax expenditures—are often aimed at policy goals similar to those of federal spending programs. For example, there are different tax expenditures intended to encourage economic development in disadvantaged areas and stimulate research and development, while there are also federal spending programs that have similar purpose"
136,"s. Also, by narrowing the tax base, business tax expenditures have the effect of raising either business tax rates or the rates on other taxpayers in order to generate a given amount of revenue. The design of the current system of business taxation causes economic inefficiency and is complex. The complexity provides fertile ground for noncompliance and raises equity concerns. Our current system for taxing business income causes economic inefficiency because it imposes significantly different effective rates"
137," of tax on different types of investments. Tax treatment that is not neutral across different types of capital investment causes significant economic inefficiency by guiding investments to lightly taxed activities rather than those with high pretax productivity. However, the goal of tax policy is not to eliminate efficiency costs. The goal is to design a tax system that produces a desired amount of revenue and balances economic efficiency with other objectives, such as equity, simplicity, transparency, and "
138,"administrability. Every practical tax system imposes efficiency costs. There are some features of current business taxation that have attracted criticism by economists and other tax experts because of efficiency costs. My point in raising them here is not that these features need to be changed—that is a policy judgment for Congress to make as it balances various goals. Rather, my point is that these economic consequences of tax policy need to be considered as we think about reform. The following are among t"
139,"he most noted cases of nonneutral taxation in the federal business tax system: Income earned on equity-financed investments made by C corporations is taxed twice—under both the corporate and individual income taxes, whereas no other business income is taxed more than once. Moreover, even noncorporate business investment is taxed more heavily than owner-occupied housing—a form of capital investment that receives very preferential treatment. As a result, resources have been shifted away from higher-return bus"
140,"iness investment into owner-occupied housing, and, within the business sector, resources have been shifted from higher-return corporations to noncorporate businesses. Such shifting of investment makes workers less productive than they would be under a more neutral tax system. This results in employees receiving lower wages because increases in employee wages are generally tied to increases in productivity. As noted above, such efficiency costs may be worth paying in order to meet other policy goals. For exa"
141,"mple, many policymakers advocate increased homeownership as a social policy goal. Depreciation allowances under the tax code vary considerably in generosity across different assets causing effective tax rates to vary and, thereby, favoring investment in certain assets over others. For example, researchers have found that the returns on most types of investments in equipment are taxed more favorably than are most investments in nonresidential buildings. These biases shift resources away from some investments"
142," in buildings that would have been more productive than some of the equipment investments that are being made instead. Tax rules for corporations favor the use of debt over shareholder equity as a source of finance for investment. The return on debt- financed investment consists of interest payments to the corporation’s creditors, which are deductible by the corporations. Consequently, that return is taxed only once—in the hands of the creditors. In contrast, the return on equity-financed investment consist"
143,"s of dividends and capital gains, which are not deductible by the corporation. These forms of income that are taxed under the individual tax are paid out of income that has already been subject to the corporate income tax. The bias against equity finance induces corporations to have less of an “equity cushion” against business downturns. Capital gains on corporate equity are taxed more favorably than dividends because that tax can be deferred until the gains are realized (typically when shareholders sell th"
144,"eir stock). This bias against dividend payments likely means that more profits are retained within corporations than otherwise would be the case and, therefore, the flow of capital to its most productive uses is being constrained. The complex set of rules governing U.S. taxation of the worldwide income of domestic corporations (those incorporated in the United States) leads to wide variations in the effective rate of tax paid on that income, based on the nature and location of each corporation’s foreign ope"
145,"rations and the effort put into tax planning. In effect, the active foreign income of some U.S. corporations is taxed more heavily than if the United States followed the practice of many other countries and exempted such income from tax. However, other U.S. corporations are able to take advantage of flexibilities in the U.S. tax rules in order to achieve treatment that is equivalent to or, in some cases, more favorable than the so-called “territorial” tax systems that exempt foreign-source active business i"
146,"ncome. As a consequence, some U.S. corporations face a tax disadvantage, while others have an advantage, relative to foreign corporations when competing in foreign countries. Those U.S. corporations that have a disadvantage are likely to locate a smaller share of their investment overseas than would be the case in a tax-free world; the opposite is true for those U.S. corporations with the tax advantage. Moreover, the tax system encourages U.S. corporations to alter their cash-management and financing decisi"
147,ons (such as by delaying the repatriation of profits) in order to reduce their taxes. The taxation of business income is part of the broader taxation of income from capital. The taxation of capital income in general (even when that taxation is uniformly applied) causes another form of inefficiency beyond the inefficiencies caused by the aforementioned cases of differential taxation across types of investments. This additional inefficiency occurs because taxes on capital reduce the after-tax return on saving
148,"s and, thereby, distort the choice that individuals make between current consumption and saving for future consumption. However, although research shows that the demand for some types of savings, such as the demand for tax exempt bonds, is responsive to tax changes, there is greater uncertainty about the effects of tax changes on other choices, such as aggregate savings. Sometimes the concerns about the negative effects of taxation on the U.S. economy are couched in terms of “competitiveness,” where the vag"
149,"uely defined term competitiveness is often defined as the ability of U.S. businesses to export their products to foreign markets and to compete against foreign imports into the U.S. market. The goal of those who push for this type of competitiveness is to improve the U.S. balance of trade. However, economists generally agree that trying to increase the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks for exports does not work. Such a policy, aimed at lowering the prices of exports, would be offset by an in"
150,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
151,"n operations at a disadvantage. The tradeoffs between a worldwide system and a territorial tax system are discussed below. Tax compliance requirements for businesses are extensive and complex. Rules governing the computation of taxable income, expense deductions, and tax credits of U.S. corporations that do business in multiple foreign countries are particularly complex. But even small businesses face multiple levels of tax requirements of varying difficulty. In addition to computing and documenting their i"
152,"ncome, expenses, and qualifications for various tax credits, businesses with employees are responsible for collecting and remitting (at varying intervals) several federal taxes on the incomes of those employees. Moreover, if the businesses choose to offer their employees retirement plans and other fringe benefits, they can substantially increase the number of filings they must make. Businesses also have information-reporting responsibilities—employers send wage statements to their employees and to IRS; bank"
153,"s and other financial intermediaries send investment income statements to clients and to IRS. Finally, a relatively small percentage of all businesses (which nevertheless number in the hundreds of thousands) are required to participate in the collection of various federal excise taxes levied on fuels, heavy trucks and trailers, communications, guns, tobacco, and alcohol, among other products. It is difficult for researchers to accurately estimate compliance costs for the tax system as a whole or for particu"
154,lar types of taxpayers because taxpayers generally do not keep records of the time and money spent complying with tax requirements. Studies we found that focus on the compliance costs of businesses estimate them to be between about $40 billion and $85 billion per year. None of these estimates include the costs to businesses of collecting and remitting income and payroll taxes for their employees. The accuracy of these business compliance cost estimates is uncertain due to the low rates of response to their 
155,"data-collection surveys. In addition, the range in estimates across the studies is due, among other things, to differences in monetary values used (ranging between $25 per hour and $37.26 per hour), differences in the business populations covered, and differences in the tax years covered. Although the precise amount of business tax avoidance is unknown, IRS’s latest estimates of tax compliance show a tax gap of at least $141 billion for tax year 2001 between the business taxes that individual and corporate "
156,"taxpayers paid and what they should have paid under the law. Corporations contributed about $32 billion to the tax gap by underreporting about $30 billion in taxes on tax returns and failing to pay about $2 billion in taxes that were reported on returns. Individual taxpayers that underreported their business income accounted for the remaining $109 billion of the business income tax gap. A complex tax code, complicated business transactions, and often multinational corporate structures make determining busin"
157,"ess tax liabilities and the extent of corporate tax avoidance a challenge. Tax avoidance has become such a concern that some tax experts say corporate tax departments have become “profit centers” as corporations seek to take advantage of the tax laws in order to maximize shareholder value. Some corporate tax avoidance is clearly legal, some falls in gray areas of the tax code, and some is clearly noncompliance or illegal, as shown by IRS’s tax gap estimate. Often business tax avoidance is legal. For example"
158,", multinational corporations can locate active trade or business operations in jurisdictions that have lower effective tax rates than does the United States and, unless and until they repatriate the income, defer taxation in the United States on that income, thus reducing their effective tax rate. In addition, investors can avoid paying the corporate income tax by putting their money into unincorporated businesses or into real estate. Complicating corporate tax compliance is the fact that in many cases the "
159,"law is unclear or subject to differing interpretations. In fact, some have postulated that major corporations’ tax returns are actually just the opening bid in an extended negotiation with IRS to determine a corporation’s tax liability. An illustration—once again from the complex area of international tax rules—is transfer pricing. Transfer pricing involves setting the appropriate price for such things as goods, services, or intangible property (such as patents, trademarks, copyrights, technology, or “know-"
160,"how”) that is transferred between the U.S.-based operations of a multinational company and a foreign affiliate. If the price paid by the affiliate to the U.S. operation is understated, the profits of the U.S. operation are reduced and U.S. taxable income is inappropriately reduced or eliminated. The standard for judging the correct price is the price that would have been paid between independent enterprises acting at “arm’s length.” However, it can be extremely difficult to establish what an arm’s length pr"
161,"ice would be. Given the global economy and the number of multinational firms with some U.S.-based operations, opportunities for transfer pricing disputes are likely to grow. Tax shelters are one example of how tax avoidance, including corporate tax avoidance, can shade into the illegal. Some tax shelters are legal though perhaps aggressive interpretations of the law, but others cross the line. Abusive shelters often are complex transactions that manipulate many parts of the tax code or regulations and are t"
162,"ypically buried among legitimate transactions reported on tax returns. Because these transactions are often composed of many pieces located in several parts of a complex tax return, they are essentially hidden from plain sight, which contributes to the difficulty of determining the scope of the abusive shelter problem. Often lacking economic substance or a business purpose other than generating tax benefits, abusive shelters have been promoted by some tax professionals, often in confidence, for significant "
163,"fees, sometimes with the participation of tax-indifferent parties, such as foreign or tax-exempt entities. These shelters may involve unnecessary steps and flow-through entities, such as partnerships, which make detection of these transactions more difficult. Regarding compliance with our tax laws, the success of our tax system hinges greatly on individual and business taxpayers’ perception of its fairness and understandability. Compliance is influenced not only by the effectiveness of IRS’s enforcement eff"
164,"orts but also by Americans’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
165,ur business tax system will be to determine how we can best strengthen enforcement of existing laws to give businesses owners confidence that their competitors are paying their fair share and to give wage earners confidence that businesses in general bear their share of taxes. One option that has been suggested as a means of improving public confidence in the tax system’s fairness is to make the reconciliation between book and tax income that businesses present on schedule M-3 of their tax returns available
166," for public review. Reform of our business tax system will necessarily mean making broad design choices about the overall tax system and how business taxes are coordinated with other taxes. The tax reform debate of the last several years has focused attention on several important choices, including the extent to which our system should be closer to the extreme of a pure income tax or the other extreme of a pure consumption tax, the extent to which sales by U.S. businesses outside of this country should be t"
167,"axed, the extent to which taxes should be collected from businesses or individuals, and the extent to which taxpayers are compensated for losses or costs they incur during the transition to any new tax system. Generally there is no single “right” decision about these choices and the options are not limited to selecting a system that is at one extreme or the other along the continuum of potential systems. The choices will involve making tradeoffs between the various goals for our tax system. The fundamental "
168,"difference between income and consumption taxes lies in their treatment of savings and investment. Income can be used for either consumption or saving and investment. The tax base of a pure income tax includes all income, regardless of what it is ultimately used for; in contrast, the tax base of a consumption tax excludes income devoted to saving and investment (until it is ultimately used for consumption). The current tax system is a hybrid between a pure income tax and a pure consumption tax because it ef"
169,"fectively exempts some types of savings and investment but taxes other types. As noted earlier, evidence is inconclusive regarding whether a shift closer to a consumption tax base would significantly affect the level of savings by U.S. taxpayers. There is, however, a consensus among economists that uneven tax treatment across different types of investment should be avoided unless the efficiency costs resulting from preferential tax treatment are outweighed by the social benefits generated by the tax prefere"
170,"nce. That objective could be achieved under either a consumption tax that exempts all new savings and investment from taxation (which means that all business profits are exempt) or a revised income tax that taxed all investments at the same effective rate. In comparison to the current system, a consumption tax’s exemption of business-source income would likely encourage U.S. businesses to increase their investment in the United States relative to their foreign investment. Both income and consumption taxes c"
171,"an be structured in a variety of ways, as discussed in the following subsections, and the choice of a specific design for either type of tax can have as significant implications for efficiency, administrability, and equity as the choice between a consumption or income base. The exemption of saving and investment can be accomplished in different ways, so consumption taxes can be structured differently and yet still have the same overall tax base. Both income and consumption taxes can be levied on individuals"
172," or businesses, or on a combination of the two. Whether collected from individuals or businesses, ultimately, individuals will bear the economic burden of any tax (as wage earners, shareholders, or consumers). The choice of whether to collect a tax at the business level or the individual level depends on whether it is thought to be desirable to levy different taxes on different individuals. A business-level tax, whether levied on income or consumption, can be collected “at source”—that is, where it is gener"
173,"ated—so there can be many fewer tax filers and returns to administer. Business-level taxes cannot, however, directly tax different individuals at different rates. Individual-level taxes can allow for distinctions between different individuals; for example, standard deductions or graduated rates can be used to tax individuals with low income (or consumption) at a lower rate than individuals with greater income (or consumption). However, individual-level taxes require more tax returns, impose higher complianc"
174,"e costs, and would generally require a larger tax administration system. A national retail sales tax, a consumption value-added tax, and an income value-added tax are examples of taxes that would be collected only at the business level. A personal consumption tax and an integrated individual income tax are examples of taxes that would be collected only at the individual level. The “flat tax” proposed by economists Robert Hall and Alvin Rabushka that has received attention in recent years is an example of a "
175,"tax collected at both the business and individual level. Our current system for taxing corporate-source income involves taxation at both the corporate and individual level in a manner that results in the double taxation of the same income. Under a pure worldwide tax system the United States would tax the income of U.S. corporations, as it is earned, regardless of where it is earned, and at the same time provide a foreign tax credit that ensures that the combined rate of tax that a corporation pays to all go"
176,vernments on each dollar of income is exactly equal to the U.S. corporate tax rate. Some basic differences between the current U.S. tax system and a pure worldwide system are that (1) in many cases the U.S. system permits corporations to defer U.S. tax on their foreign-source income until it is repatriated and (2) the U.S. foreign tax credit is limited to the amount of U.S. tax that would be due on a corporation’s foreign-source income. In cases where the rate of foreign tax on a corporation’s income exceed
177,"s the U.S. tax rate, the corporation is left paying the higher rate of tax. Under a pure territorial tax system the United States would simply exempt all foreign-source income. (No major country has a pure territorial system; they all tax mobile forms of foreign-source income, such as royalties and income from securities.) The current U.S. tax system has some features that result in some cases in treatment similar to what would exist under a territorial system. First, corporations can defer U.S. tax indefin"
178,"itely on certain foreign-source income, as long as they keep it reinvested abroad. Second, in certain cases U.S. corporations are able to use the excess credits that they earned for taxes they paid to high-tax countries to completely offset any U.S. tax that they would normally have to pay on income they earned in low-tax countries. As a result, that income from low-tax countries remains untaxed by the United States—just as it would be under a territorial system. In fact, there are some cases where U.S. cor"
179,"porations enjoy tax treatment that is more favorable than under a territorial system. This occurs when they pay no U.S. tax on foreign-source income yet are still able to deduct expenses allocable to that income. For example, a U.S. parent corporation can borrow money and invest it in a foreign subsidiary. The parent corporation generally can deduct its interest payments from its U.S. taxes even if it defers U.S. tax on the subsidiary’s income by leaving it overseas. Proponents of a worldwide tax system and"
180, proponents of a territorial system both argue that their preferred systems would provide important forms of tax neutrality. Under a pure worldwide system all of the income that a U.S. corporation earns abroad would be taxed at the same effective rate that a corporation earning the same amount of income domestically would pay. Such a tax system is neutral in the sense that it does not influence the decision of U.S. corporations to invest abroad or at home. If the U.S. had a pure territorial tax system all o
181,f the income that U.S. corporations earn in a particular country would be taxed at the same rate as corporations that are residents of that country. The pure territorial system is neutral in the specific sense that U.S. corporations investing in a foreign country would not be at a disadvantage relative to corporations residing in that country or relative to other foreign corporations investing there. In a world where each country sets its own tax rules it is impossible to achieve both types of neutrality at
182," the same time, so tradeoffs are unavoidable. A change from the current tax system to a pure territorial one is likely to have mixed effects on tax compliance and administration. On the one hand, a pure worldwide tax system, or even the current system, may preserve the U.S. tax base better than a territorial system would because U.S. taxpayers would have greater incentive under a territorial system to shift income and investment into low-tax jurisdictions via transfer pricing. On the other hand, a pure terr"
183,"itorial system may be less complex for IRS to administer and for taxpayers to comply with than the current tax system because there would be no need for the antideferral rules or the foreign tax credit, which are among the most complex features of the current system. Broad-based consumption taxes can differ depending on whether they are imposed under a destination principle, which holds that goods and services should be taxed in the countries where they are consumed, or an origin principle, which holds that"
184," goods and services should be taxed in the countries where they are produced. In the long run, after markets have adjusted, neither type of tax would have a significant effect on the U.S. trade balance. This is true for a destination-based tax because products consumed in the United States would be taxed at the same rate, regardless of where they were produced. Therefore, such a tax would not influence a consumer’s choice between buying a car produced in the United States or one imported from Japan. And at "
185,"the same time, U.S. exports of cars would not be affected by the tax because they would be exempted. An origin-based consumption tax would not affect the trade balance because the tax effects that taxes have on prices would ultimately be countered by the same price adjustment mechanism that we discussed earlier with respect to targeted tax subsidies for exports. A national retail sales tax limited to final consumption goods would be a destination-principle tax; it would tax imports when sold at retail in th"
186,"is country and would not tax exports. Value-added taxes can be designed as either destination or origin-principle taxes. A personal consumption tax, collected at the individual level, would apply to U.S. residents or citizens and could be formulated to tax their consumption regardless of whether it is done domestically or overseas. Under such a system, income earned abroad would be taxable but funds saved or invested abroad would be deductible. In that case, foreign- produced goods imported into the United "
187,"States or consumed by U.S. citizens abroad would be taxed. U.S. exports would only be taxed to the extent that they are consumed by U.S. citizens abroad. A wide range of options exist for moving from the current business tax system to an alternative one, and the way that any transition is formulated could have significant effects for economic efficiency, equity, taxpayer compliance burden, and tax administration. For example, one transition issue involves whether tax credits and other tax benefits already e"
188,"arned under the current tax would be made available under a new system. Businesses that are deducting depreciation under the current system would not have the opportunity to continue depreciating their capital goods under a VAT unless special rules were included to permit it. Similar problems could arise with businesses’ carrying forward net operating losses and recovering unclaimed tax credits. Depending on how these and other issues are addressed, taxpayer compliance burden and tax administration responsi"
189,"bilities could be greater during the transition period than they currently are or than they would be once the transition ends. Transition rules could also substantially reduce the new system’s tax base, thereby requiring higher tax rates during the transition if revenue neutrality were to be achieved. Our publication, Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, and Questions, may be useful in guiding policymakers as they consider tax reform proposals. It was designed to aid policymakers in th"
190,"inking about how to develop tax policy for the 21st century. The criteria for a good tax system, which our report discusses, provide the basis for a set of principles that should guide Congress as it considers the choices and tradeoffs involved in tax system reform. And, as I also noted earlier, proposals for reforming business taxation cannot be evaluated without considering how that business taxation will interact with and complement the other elements of our overall future tax system. The proposed system"
191," should raise sufficient revenue over time to fund our expected expenditures. As I mentioned earlier, we will fall woefully short of achieving this end if current spending or revenue trends are not altered. Although we clearly must restructure major entitlement programs and the basis of other federal spending, it is unlikely that our long-term fiscal challenge will be resolved solely by cutting spending. The proposal should look to future needs. Like many spending programs, the current tax system was develo"
192,"ped in a profoundly different time. We live now in a much more global economy, with highly mobile capital, and with investment options available to ordinary citizens that were not even imagined decades ago. We have growing concentrations of income and wealth. More firms operate multinationally and willingly move operations and capital around the world as they see best for their firms. As an adjunct to looking forward when making reforms, better information on existing commitments and promises must be couple"
193,"d with estimates of the long-term discounted net present value costs from spending and tax commitments comprising longer-term exposures for the federal budget beyond the existing 10-year budget projection window. The tax base should be as broad as possible. Broad-based tax systems with minimal exceptions have many advantages. Fewer exceptions generally means less complexity, less compliance cost, less economic efficiency loss, and by increasing transparency may improve equity or perceptions of equity. This "
194,suggests that eliminating or consolidating numerous tax expenditures must be considered. In many cases tax preferences are simply a form of “back-door spending.” We need to be sure that the benefits achieved from having these special provisions are worth the associated revenue losses just as we must ensure that outlay programs— which may be attempting to achieve the same purposes as tax expenditures—achieve outcomes commensurate with their costs. And it is important to supplement these cost-benefit evaluati
195,"ons with analyses of distributional effects—i.e., who bears the costs of the preferences and who receives the benefits. To the extent tax expenditures are retained, consideration should be given to whether they could be better targeted to meet an identified need. If we must raise revenues, doing so from a broad base and a lower rate will help minimize economic efficiency costs. Broad-based tax systems can yield the same revenue as more narrowly based systems at lower tax rates. The combination of less direc"
196,"t intervention in the marketplace from special tax preferences, and the lower rates possible from broad-based systems, can have substantial benefits for economic efficiency. For instance, one commonly cited rule of thumb regarding economic efficiency costs of tax increases is that they rise proportionately faster than the tax rates. In other words, a 10 percent tax increase could raise the economic efficiency costs of a tax system by much more than 10 percent. Aside from the base-broadening that minimizes t"
197,"argeted tax preferences favoring specific types of investment or other business behavior, it is also desirable on the grounds of economic efficiency to extend the principle of tax neutrality to the broader structural features of a business tax system. For example, improvements in economic efficiency can also be gained by avoiding differences in tax treatment, such as the differences in the current system based on legal form of organization, source of financing, and the nature and location of foreign operati"
198,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Americans. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
199,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Americans is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Americans and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
200,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to American productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
201,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Americans over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
202,"references or complex provisions and taxable transactions are transparent. Transparency in the context of tax administration is best achieved when third parties report information both to the taxpayer and the tax administrator. Minimizing tax code complexity has the potential to reduce noncompliance for at least three broad reasons. First, it could help taxpayers to comply voluntarily with more certainty, reducing inadvertent errors by those who want to comply but are confused because of complexity. Second,"
203," it may limit opportunities for tax evasion, reducing intentional noncompliance by taxpayers who can misuse the complex code provisions to hide their noncompliance or to achieve ends through tax shelters. Third, reducing tax-code complexity could improve taxpayers’ willingness to comply voluntarily. Finally, the consideration of transition rules needs to be an integral part of the design of a new system. The effects of these rules can be too significant to leave them simply as an afterthought in the reform "
204,"process. The problems that I have reviewed today relating to the compliance costs, efficiency costs, equity, and tax gap associated with the current business tax system would seem to make a strong case for a comprehensive review and reform of our tax policy. Further, businesses operate in a world that is profoundly different—more competitive and more global—than when many of the existing provisions of the tax code were adopted. Despite numerous and repeated calls for reform, progress has been slow. I discus"
205,"sed reasons for the slow progress in a previous hearing on individual tax reform before this committee. One reason why reform is difficult to accomplish is that the provisions of the tax code that generate compliance costs, efficiency costs, the tax gap and inequities also benefit many taxpayers. Reform is also difficult because, even when there is agreement on the amount of revenue to raise, there are differing opinions on the appropriate balance among the often conflicting objectives of equity, efficiency"
206,", and administrability. This, in turn, leads to widely divergent views on even the basic direction of reform. However, I have described some basic principles that ought to guide business tax reform. One of them is revenue sufficiency. Fiscal necessity, prompted by the nation’s unsustainable fiscal path, will eventually force changes to our spending and tax policies. We must fundamentally rethink policies and everything must be on the table. Tough choices will have to be made about the appropriate degree of "
207,"emphasis on cutting back federal programs versus increasing tax revenue. Other principles, such as broadening the tax base and otherwise promoting tax neutrality, could help improve economic performance. While economic growth alone will not solve our long-term fiscal problems, an improvement in our overall economic performance makes dealing with those problems easier. The recent report of the President’s Advisory Panel on Federal Tax Reform recommended two different tax reform plans. Although each plan is i"
208,"ntended to improve economic efficiency and simplify the tax system, neither of them addresses the growing imbalance between federal spending and revenues that I have highlighted. One approach for getting the process of comprehensive fiscal reform started would be through the establishment of a credible, capable, and bipartisan commission, to examine options for a combination of selected entitlement and tax reform issues. Mr. Chairman and Members of the Committee, this concludes my statement. I would be plea"
209,"sed to answer any questions you may have at this time. For further information on this testimony, please contact James White on (202) 512-9110 or whitej@gao.gov. Contact points for our Offices of Congressional Relations and Public Affairs may be found on the last page of this testimony. Individuals making key contributions to this testimony include Jim Wozny, Assistant Director; Donald Marples; Jeff Arkin; and Cheryl Peterson. Individual Income Tax Policy: Streamlining, Simplification, and Additional Reform"
210,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. GAO-05-1009SP. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
211,"lity: Tax Expenditures Represent a Substantial Federal Commitment and Need to Be Reexamined. GAO-05-690. Washington, D.C.: Sept. 23, 2005. Tax Policy: Summary of Estimates of the Costs of the Federal Tax System. GAO-05-878. Washington, D.C.: August 26, 2005. Tax Compliance: Reducing the Tax Gap Can Contribute to Fiscal Sustainability but Will Require a Variety of Strategies. GAO-05-527T. Washington, D.C.: April 14, 2005. 21st Century Challenges: Reexamining the Base of the Federal Government. GAO-05-325SP. "
212,"Washington, D.C.: February 1, 2005. Tax Administration: Potential Impact of Alternative Taxes on Taxpayers and Administrators. GAO/GGD-98-37. Washington, D.C.: January 14, 1998. Corporate Income Tax Rates: International Comparisons. Washington, D.C.: November 2005. Taxing Capital Income: Effective Rates and Approaches to Reform. Washington, D.C.: October 2005. Effects of Adopting a Value-Added Tax. Washington, D.C.: February 1992. Brumbaugh, David L. Taxes and International Competitiveness. RS22445. Washing"
213,"ton, D.C.: May 19, 2006. Brumbaugh, David L. Federal Business Taxation: The Current System, Its Effects, and Options for Reform. RL33171. Washington, D.C.: December 20, 2005. Gravelle, Jane G.. Capital Income Tax Revisions and Effective Tax Rates. RL32099. Washington, D.C.: January 5, 2005. The Impact of International Tax Reform: Background and Selected Issues Relating to U.S. International Tax Rules and the Competitiveness of U.S. Businesses. JCX-22-06. Washington, D.C.: June 21, 2006. Options to Improve T"
214,"ax Compliance and Reform Tax Expenditures. JCS- 02-05. Washington, D.C.: January 27, 2005. The U.S. International Tax Rules: Background, Data, and Selected Issues Relating to the Competitiveness of U.S.-Based Business Operations. JCX- 67-03. Washington, D.C.: July 3, 2003. Background Materials on Business Tax Issues Prepared for the House Committee on Ways and Means Tax Policy Discussion Series. JCX-23-02. Washington, D.C.: April 4, 2002. Report to The Congress on Depreciation Recovery Periods and Methods. "
215,"Washington, D.C.: July 2000. Integration of The Individual and Corporate Tax Systems: Taxing Business Income Once. Washington, D.C.: January 1992. Simple, Fair, and Pro-Growth: Proposals to Fix America’s Tax System. Washington, D.C.: November 2005. Over the past decade, several proposals for fundamental tax reform have been put forward. These proposals would significantly change tax rates, the tax base, and the level of tax (whether taxes are collected from individuals, businesses, or both). Some of the pro"
216,"posals would replace the federal income tax with some type of consumption tax levied only on businesses. Consumption taxes levied only on businesses include retail sales taxes (RST) and value-added taxes (VAT). The flat tax would also change the tax base to consumption but include both a relatively simple individual tax along with a business tax. A personal consumption tax, a consumption tax levied primarily on individuals, has also been proposed. Similar changes in the level at which taxes are collected co"
217,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Americans are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
218," that is saved is not taxed until it is used for consumption. Under a national RST, different tax rates could be applied to different goods, and the sale of some goods could carry a zero tax rate (exemption). However, directly taxing different individuals at different rates for the same good would be very difficult. A consumption VAT, which like the RST, is a business-level consumption tax levied directly on the purchase of goods and services. The two taxes differ in the manner in which the tax is collected"
219," and paid. In contrast to a retail sales tax, sales of goods and services to consumers and to businesses are taxable under a VAT. However, businesses can either deduct the amount of their purchases of goods and services from other businesses (under a subtraction VAT) or can claim a credit for tax paid on purchases from other businesses (under a credit VAT). Under either method, sales between businesses do not generate net tax liability under a VAT because the amount included in the tax base by businesses se"
220,"lling goods is equal to the amount deducted by the business purchasing goods. The only sales that generate net revenue for the government are sales between businesses and consumers, which is the same case as the RST. An income VAT would move the taxation of wage income to the business level as well. No individual returns would be necessary, so the burden of complying with the tax law would be eliminated for individuals. An income VAT would not allow businesses to deduct dividends, interest, or wages, so the"
221," income VAT remitted by businesses would include tax on these types of income. Calculations would not have to be made for different individuals, which would simplify tax administration and compliance burdens but not allow for treating different individuals differently. The flat tax was developed in the early 1980s by economists Robert Hall and Alvin Rabushka. The Hall-Rabushka flat tax proposal includes both an individual tax and a business tax. As described by Hall and Rabushka, the flat tax is a modificat"
222,"ion of a VAT; the modifications make the tax more progressive (less regressive) than a VAT. In particular, the business tax base is designed to be the same as that of a VAT, except that businesses are allowed to deduct wages and retirement income paid out as well as purchases from other businesses. Wage and retirement income is then taxed when received by individuals at the same rate as the business tax rate. By including this individual-level tax as well as the business tax, standard deductions can be made"
223," available to individuals. Individuals with less wage and retirement income than the standard deduction amounts would not owe any tax. A personal consumption tax would look much like a personal income tax. The major difference between the two is that under the consumption tax, taxpayers would include all income received, amounts borrowed, and cash flows received from the sale of assets, and then deduct the amount they saved. The remaining amount would be a measure of the taxpayer’s consumption over the year"
224,". When funds are withdrawn from bank accounts, or stocks or bonds are sold, both the original amount saved and interest earned are taxable because they are available for consumption. If withdrawn funds are reinvested in another qualified account or in stock or bonds, the taxable amount of the withdrawal would be offset by the deduction for the same amount that is reinvested. While the personal consumption tax would look like a personal income tax, the tax base would be the same as an RST. Instead of collect"
225,"ing tax on each sale of consumer products at the business level, a personal consumption tax would tax individuals annually on the sum of all their purchases of consumption goods. Because it is an individual-level tax, different tax rates could be applied to different individuals so that the tax could be made more progressive, and other taxpayer characteristics, such as family size, could be taken into account if desired. This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the"
226," United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately."
227,"There are some similarities in how Medicare pays ASCs and hospital outpatient departments for the procedures they perform. However, the methods used by CMS to calculate the payment rates in each system, as well as the mechanisms used to revise the Medicare payment rates, differ. In 1980, legislation was enacted that enabled ASCs to bill Medicare for certain surgical procedures provided to Medicare beneficiaries. Under the ASC payment system, Medicare pays a predetermined, and generally all- inclusive, amoun"
228,"t per procedure to the facility. The approximately 2,500 surgical procedures that ASCs may bill for under Medicare are assigned to one of nine payment groups that contain procedures with similar costs, but not necessarily clinical similarities. All procedures assigned to one payment group are paid at the same rate. Under the Medicare payment system, when more than one procedure is performed at the same time, the ASC receives a payment for each of the procedures. However, the procedure that has the highest p"
229,"ayment rate receives 100 percent of the applicable payment, and each additional procedure receives 50 percent of the applicable payment. The Medicare payment for a procedure performed at an ASC is intended to cover the direct costs for a procedure, such as nursing and technician services, drugs, medical and surgical supplies and equipment, anesthesia materials, and diagnostic services (including imaging services), and the indirect costs associated with the procedure, including use of the facility and relate"
230,"d administrative services. The ASC payment for a procedure does not include payment for implantable devices or prosthetics related to the procedure; ASCs may bill separately for those items. In addition, the payment to the ASC does not include payment for professional services associated with the procedure; the physician who performs the procedure and the anesthesiologist or anesthetist bill Medicare directly for their services. Finally, the ASC payment does not include payment for certain other services th"
231,"at are not directly related to performing the procedure and do not occur during the time that the procedure takes place, such as some laboratory, X-ray, and other diagnostic tests. Because these additional services are not ASC procedures, they may be performed by another provider. In those cases, Medicare makes payments to those providers for the additional services. For example, a laboratory service needed to evaluate a tissue sample removed during an ASC procedure is not included in the ASC payment. The p"
232,"rovider that evaluated the tissue sample would bill and receive payment from Medicare for that service. Because ASCs receive one inclusive payment for the procedure performed and its associated services, such as drugs, they generally include on their Medicare claim only the procedure performed. In 1997, legislation was enacted that required the implementation of a prospective payment system for hospital outpatient departments; the OPPS was implemented in August 2000. Although ASCs perform only procedures, h"
233,"ospital outpatient departments provide a much broader array of services, including diagnostic services, such as X-rays and laboratory tests, and emergency room and clinic visits. Each of the approximately 5,500 services, including procedures, that hospital outpatient departments perform is assigned to one of over 800 APC groups with other services with clinical and cost similarities for payment under the OPPS. All services assigned to one APC group are paid the same rate. Similar to ASCs, when hospitals per"
234,"form multiple procedures at the same time, they receive 100 percent of the applicable payment for the procedure that has the highest payment rate, and 50 percent of the applicable payment for each additional procedure, subject to certain exceptions. Like payments to ASCs, payment for a procedure under the OPPS is intended to cover the costs of the use of the facility, nursing and technician services, most drugs, medical and surgical supplies and equipment, anesthesia materials, and administrative costs. Med"
235,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other nonphysician practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
236,"n drugs and diagnostic services, including X-rays. Hospital outpatient departments also may bill separately for additional services that are not directly related to the procedure and do not occur during the procedure, such as laboratory services to evaluate a tissue sample. Because they provide a broader array of services, and because CMS has encouraged hospitals to report all services provided during a procedure on their Medicare claims for rate-setting purposes, hospital claims may provide more detail abo"
237,"ut the services delivered during a procedure than ASC claims do. CMS set the initial 1982 ASC payment rates based on cost and charge data from 40 ASCs. At that time, there were about 125 ASCs in operation. Procedures were placed into four payment groups, and all procedures in a group were paid the same rate. When the ASC payment system was first established, federal law required CMS to review the payment rates periodically. In 1986, CMS conducted an ASC survey to gather cost and charge data. In 1990, using "
238,"these data, CMS revised the payment rates and increased the number of payment groups to eight. A ninth payment group was established in 1991. These groups are still in use, although some procedures have been added to or deleted from the ASC-approved list. Although payments have not been revised using ASC cost data since 1990, the payment rates have been periodically updated for inflation. In 1994, Congress required that CMS conduct a survey of ASC costs no later than January 1, 1995, and thereafter every 5 "
239,"years, to revise ASC payment rates. CMS conducted a survey in 1994 to collect ASC cost data. In 1998, CMS proposed revising ASC payment rates based on the 1994 survey data and assigned procedures performed at ASCs into payment groups that were comparable to the payment groups it was developing for the same procedures under the OPPS. However, CMS did not implement the proposal, and, as a result, the ASC payment system was not revised using the 1994 data. In 2003, MMA eliminated the requirement to conduct ASC"
240," surveys every 5 years and required CMS to implement a revised ASC payment system no later than January 1, 2008. During the course of our work, in August 2006, CMS published a proposed rule that would revise the ASC payment system effective January 1, 2008. In this proposed rule, CMS bases the revised ASC payment rates on the OPPS APC groups. However, the payment rates would be lower for ASCs. The initial OPPS payment rates, implemented in August 2000, were based on hospitals’ 1996 costs. To determine the O"
241,"PPS payment rates, CMS first calculates each hospital’s cost for each service by multiplying the charge for that service by a cost-to-charge ratio computed from the hospital’s most recently reported data. After calculating the cost of each service for each hospital, the services are grouped by their APC assignment, and a median cost for each APC group is calculated from the median costs of all services assigned to it. Using the median cost, CMS assigns each APC group a weight based on its median cost relati"
242,"ve to the median cost of all other APCs. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
243," with the top 20 procedures. Of the additional services billed with a procedure, few resulted in an additional payment in one setting but not the other. Hospitals were paid for some of the related additional services they billed with the procedures. In the ASC setting, other providers billed Medicare for these services and received payment for them. In our analysis of Medicare claims, we found many similarities in the additional services billed in the ASC or hospital outpatient department setting with the t"
244,"op 20 procedures. The similar additional services are illustrated in the following four categories of services: additional procedures, laboratory services, radiology services, and anesthesia services. First, one or more additional procedures was billed with a procedure performed in either the ASC or hospital outpatient department setting for 14 of the top 20 procedures. The proportion of time each additional procedure was billed in each setting was similar. For example, when a hammertoe repair procedure was"
245," performed, our analysis indicated that another procedure to correct a bunion was billed 11 percent of the time in the ASC setting, and in the hospital outpatient setting, the procedure to correct a bunion was billed 13 percent of the time. Similarly, when a diagnostic colonoscopy was performed, an upper gastrointestinal (GI) endoscopy was billed 11 percent of the time in the ASC setting, and in the hospital setting, the upper GI endoscopy was billed 12 percent of the time. For 11 of these 14 procedures, th"
246,"e proportion of time each additional procedure was billed differed by less than 10 percentage points between the two settings. For the 3 remaining procedures, the percentage of time that an additional procedure was billed did not vary by more than 25 percentage points between the two settings. See appendix III for a complete list of the additional procedures billed and the proportion of time they were billed in each setting. Second, laboratory services were billed with 10 of the top 20 procedures in the hos"
247,"pital outpatient department setting and 7 of the top 20 procedures in the ASC setting. While these services were almost always billed by the hospital in the outpatient setting, they were typically not billed by the ASCs. These laboratory services were present in our analysis in the ASC setting because they were performed and billed by another Medicare part B provider. Third, four different radiology services were billed with 8 of the top 20 procedures. Radiology services were billed with 5 procedures in the"
248," ASC setting and with 8 procedures in the hospital outpatient department setting. The radiology services generally were included on the hospital outpatient department bills but rarely were included on the ASC bills. Similar to laboratory services, hospital outpatient departments billed for radiology services that they performed in addition to the procedures. When radiology services were billed with procedures in the ASC setting, these services generally were performed and billed by another part B provider. "
249,"Fourth, anesthesia services were billed with 17 of the top 20 procedures in either the ASC or hospital outpatient settings and with 14 procedures in both settings. In virtually every case in the ASC setting, and most cases in the hospital outpatient department setting, these services were billed by another part B provider. According to our analysis, ASCs did not generally include any services other than the procedures they performed on their bills. However, in the hospital outpatient setting, some additiona"
250,"l services were included on the hospitals’ bills. We believe this is a result of the structure of the two payment systems. As ASCs generally receive payment from Medicare only for procedures, they typically include only those procedures on their bills. In contrast, hospital outpatient departments’ bills often include many of the individual items or services they provide as a part of a procedure because CMS has encouraged them to do so, whether the items or services are included in the OPPS payment or paid s"
251,"eparately. With the exception of additional procedures, there were few separate payments that could be made for additional services provided with the top 20 procedures because most of the services in our analysis were included in the Medicare payment to the ASC or hospital. Under both the Medicare ASC and OPPS payment systems, when more than one procedure is performed at the same time, the facility receives 100 percent of the applicable payment for the procedure that has the highest payment rate and 50 perc"
252,"ent of the applicable payment for each additional procedure. As this policy is applicable to both settings, for those instances in our analysis when an additional procedure was performed with one of the top 20 procedures in either setting, the ASC or hospital outpatient department received 100 percent of the payment for the procedure with the highest payment rate and 50 percent of the payment for each lesser paid procedure. Individual drugs were billed by hospital outpatient departments for most of the top "
253,"20 procedures, although they were not present on the claims from ASCs, likely because ASCs generally cannot receive separate Medicare payments for individual drugs. However, none of the individual drugs billed by the hospital outpatient departments in our analysis resulted in an additional payment to the hospitals. In each case, the cost of the particular drug was included in the Medicare payment for the procedure. In the case of the laboratory services billed with procedures in the ASC and hospital outpati"
254,"ent department settings, those services were not costs included in the payment for the procedure in either setting and were paid separately in each case. For both settings, the payment was made to the provider that performed the service. In the case of the hospital outpatient department setting, the payment was generally made to the hospital, while, for procedures performed at ASCs, payment was made to another provider who performed the service. Of the four radiology services in our analysis, three were sim"
255,"ilar to the laboratory services in that they are not included in the cost of the procedure and are separately paid services under Medicare. Therefore, when hospitals provided these services, they received payment for them. In the ASC setting, these services were typically billed by a provider other than the ASC, and the provider received payment for them. The fourth radiology service is included in the payment for the procedure with which it was associated. Therefore, no separate payment was made to either "
256,"ASCs or hospital outpatient departments. With regard to anesthesia services, most services were billed by and paid to a provider other than an ASC or hospital. As a group, the costs of procedures performed in ASCs have a relatively consistent relationship with the costs of the APC groups to which they would be assigned under the OPPS. That is, the APC groups accurately reflect the relative costs of procedures performed in ASCs. We found that the ASC-to-APC cost ratios were more tightly distributed around th"
257,"eir median cost ratio than the OPPS-to-APC cost ratios were around their median cost ratio. Specifically, 45 percent of all procedures in our analysis fell within 0.10 points of the ASC-to-APC median cost ratio, and 33 percent of procedures fell within 0.10 points of the OPPS-to-APC median cost ratio. However, the costs of procedures in ASCs are substantially lower than costs for the same procedures in the hospital outpatient setting. The APC groups reflect the relative costs of procedures provided by ASCs "
258,"as well as they reflect the relative costs of procedures provided in the hospital outpatient department setting. In our analysis, we listed the procedures performed at ASCs and calculated the ratio of the cost of each procedure to the cost of the APC group to which it would have been assigned, referred to as the ASC-to-APC cost ratio. We then calculated similar cost ratios for the same procedures exclusively within the OPPS. To determine an OPPS-to-APC cost ratio, we divided individual procedures’ median co"
259,"sts, as calculated by CMS for the OPPS, by the median cost of their APC group. Our analysis of the cost ratios showed that the ASC-to-APC cost ratios were more tightly distributed around their median than were the OPPS-to-APC cost ratios; that is, there were more of them closer to the median. Specifically, 45 percent of procedures performed in ASCs fell within a 0.10 point range of the ASC-to-APC median cost ratio, and 33 percent of those procedures fell within a 0.10 point range of the OPPS-to-APC median c"
260,"ost ratio in the hospital outpatient department setting (see figs. 1 and 2). Therefore, there is less variation in the ASC setting between individual procedures’ costs and the costs of their assigned APC groups than there is in the hospital outpatient department setting. From this outcome, we determined that the OPPS APC groups could be used to pay for procedures in ASCs. The median costs of procedures performed in ASCs were generally lower than the median costs of their corresponding APC group under the OP"
261,"PS. Among all procedures in our analysis, the median ASC-to-APC cost ratio was 0.39. The ASC-to-APC cost ratios ranged from 0.02 to 3.34. When weighted by Medicare volume based on 2004 claims data, the median ASC- to-APC cost ratio was 0.84. We determined that the median OPPS-to-APC cost ratio was 1.04. This analysis shows that when compared to the median cost of the same APC group, procedures performed in ASCs had substantially lower costs than when those same procedures were performed in hospital outpatie"
262,"nt departments. Generally, there are many similarities between the additional services provided in ASCs and hospital outpatient departments with one of the top 20 procedures, and few resulted in an additional Medicare payment to ASCs or hospital outpatient departments. Although costs for individual procedures vary, in general, the median costs for procedures are lower in ASCs, relative to the median costs of their APC groups, than the median costs for the same procedures in the hospital outpatient departmen"
263,"t setting. The APC groups in the OPPS reflect the relative costs of procedures performed in ASCs in the same way that they reflect the relative costs of the same procedures when they are performed in hospital outpatient departments. Therefore, the APC groups could be applied to procedures performed in ASCs, and the OPPS could be used as the basis for an ASC payment system, eliminating the need for ASC surveys and providing for an annual revision of the ASC payment groups. We recommend that the Administrator"
264," of CMS implement a payment system for procedures performed in ASCs based on the OPPS. The Administrator should take into account the lower relative costs of procedures performed in ASCs compared to hospital outpatient departments in determining ASC payment rates. We received written comments on a draft of this report from CMS (see app. IV). We also received oral comments from external reviewers representing two ASC industry organizations, AAASC and FASA. In commenting on a draft of this report, CMS stated "
265,"that our recommendation is consistent with its August 2006 proposed revisions to the ASC payment system. Industry representatives who reviewed a draft of this report did not agree or disagree with our recommendation for executive action. They did, however, provide several comments on the draft report. The industry representatives noted that we did not analyze the survey results to examine differences in per-procedure costs among single-specialty and multi-specialty ASCs. Regarding this comment, we initially"
266," considered developing our survey sample stratified by ASC specialty type. However, because accurate data identifying ASCs’ specialties do not exist, we were unable to stratify our survey sample by specialty type. The industry representatives asked us to provide more explanation in our scope and methodology regarding our development of a relative weight scale for Medicare ASC-approved procedures to capture the general variation in resources associated with performing different procedures. We expanded the di"
267,"scussion of how we developed the relative weight scale in our methodology section. Reviewers also made technical comments, which we incorporated where appropriate. We are sending a copy of this report to the Administrator of CMS and appropriate congressional committees. The report is available at no charge on GAO’s Web site at http://www.gao.gov. We will also make copies available to others on request. If you or your staff members have any questions about this report, please contact me at (202) 512-7119 or "
268,"kingk@gao.gov. Contact points for our Offices of Congressional Relations and Public Affairs may be found on the last page of this report. GAO staff members who made significant contributions to this report are listed in appendix V. The Medicare payment rates for ambulatory surgical centers (ASC), along with those of other facilities, are adjusted to account for the variation in labor costs across the country. To calculate payment rates for individual ASCs, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) "
269,calculates the share of total costs that are labor-related and then adjusts ASCs’ labor- related share of costs based on a wage index calculated for specific geographic areas across the country. The wage index reflects how the average wage for health care personnel in each geographic area compares to the national average health care personnel wage. The geographic areas are intended to represent the separate labor markets in which health care facilities compete for employees. In setting the initial ASC payme
270,"nt rates for 1982, CMS determined from the first survey of ASCs that one-third of their costs were labor-related. The labor-related costs included employee salaries and fringe benefits, contractual personnel, and owners’ compensation for duties performed for the facility. To determine the payment rates for each individual ASC, CMS multiplied one-third of the payment rate for each procedure—the labor- related portion—by the local area wage index. Each ASC received the base payment rate for two-thirds of the "
271,"payment rate—the nonlabor-related portion—for each procedure. The sum of the labor-related and nonlabor- related portions equaled each ASC’s payment rate for each procedure. In 1990, when CMS revised the payment system based on a 1986 ASC survey, CMS found ASCs’ average labor-related share of costs to be 34.45 percent and used this percentage as the labor-related portion of the payment rate. In a 1998 proposed rule, CMS noted that ASCs’ share of labor-related costs as calculated from the 1994 ASC cost surve"
272,"y had increased to an average of 37.66 percent, slightly higher than the percentage calculated from the 1986 survey. However, CMS did not implement the 1998 proposal. Currently, the labor-related proportion of costs from CMS’s 1986 survey, 34.45 percent, is used for calculating ASC payment rates. Using 2004 cost data we received from 290 ASCs that responded to our survey request for information, we determined that the mean labor-related proportion of costs was 50 percent, and the range of the labor-related "
273,"costs for the middle 50 percent of our ASC facilities was 43 percent to 57 percent of total costs. To compare the delivery of procedures between ASCs and hospital outpatient departments, we analyzed Medicare claims data from 2003. To compare the relative costs of procedures performed in ASCs and hospital outpatient departments, we collected cost and procedure data from 2004 from a sample of Medicare-participating ASCs. We also interviewed officials at CMS and representatives from ASC industry organizations,"
274," specifically, the American Association of Ambulatory Surgery Centers (AAASC) and FASA, physician specialty societies, and nine ASCs. To compare the delivery of additional services provided with procedures performed in ASCs and hospital outpatient departments, we identified all additional services frequently billed in each setting when one of the top 20 procedures with the highest Medicare ASC claims volume is performed. These procedures represented approximately 75 percent of all Medicare ASC claims in 200"
275,"3. Using Medicare claims data for 2003, we identified beneficiaries receiving one of the top 20 procedures in either an ASC or hospital outpatient department, then identified any other claims for those beneficiaries from ASCs, hospital outpatient departments, durable medical equipment suppliers, and other Medicare part B providers. We identified claims for the beneficiaries on the day the procedure was performed and the day after. We created a list that included all additional services that were billed at l"
276,east 10 percent of the time with each of the top 20 procedures when they were performed in ASCs. We created a similar list of additional services for each of the top 20 procedures when they were performed in hospital outpatient departments. We then compared the lists for each of the top 20 procedures between the two settings to determine whether there were similarities in the additional services that were billed to Medicare. To compare the Medicare payments for procedures performed in ASCs and hospital outp
277,"atient departments, we identified whether any additional services included in our analysis resulted in an additional payment. We used Medicare claims data from the National Claims History (NCH) files. These data, which are used by the Medicare program to make payments to health care providers, are closely monitored by both CMS and the Medicare contractors that process, review, and pay claims for Medicare services. The data are subject to various internal controls, including checks and edits performed by the"
278," contractors before claims are submitted to CMS for payment approval. Although we did not review these internal controls, we did assess the reliability of the NCH data. First, we reviewed all existing information about the data, including the data dictionary and file layouts. We also interviewed experts at CMS who regularly use the data for evaluation and analysis. We found the data to be sufficiently reliable for the purposes of this report. To compare the relative costs of procedures performed in ASCs and"
279," hospital outpatient departments, we first compiled information on ASCs’ costs and procedures performed. Because there were no recent existing data on ASC costs, we surveyed 600 ASCs, randomly selected from all ASCs, to obtain their 2004 cost and procedure data. We received response data from 397 ASC facilities. We assessed the reliability of these data through several means. We identified incomplete and inconsistent survey responses within individual surveys and placed follow-up calls to respondents to com"
280,"plete or verify their responses. To ensure that survey response data were accurately transferred to electronic files for our analytic purposes, two analysts independently entered all survey responses. Any discrepancies between the two sets of entered responses were resolved. We performed electronic testing for errors in accuracy and completeness, including an analysis of costs per procedure. As a result of our data reliability testing, we determined that data from 290 responding facilities were sufficiently"
281," reliable for our purposes. Our nonresponse analysis showed that there was no geographic bias among the facilities responding to our survey. The responding facilities performed more Medicare services than the average for all ASCs in our sample. To allocate ASCs’ total costs among the individual procedures they perform, we developed a method to allocate the portion of an ASC’s costs accounted for by each procedure. We constructed a relative weight scale for Medicare ASC-approved procedures that captures the "
282,"general variation in resources associated with performing different procedures. The resources we used were the clinical staff time, surgical supplies, and surgical equipment used during the procedures. We used cost and quantity data on these resources from information CMS had collected for the purpose of setting the practice expense component of physician payment rates. For procedures for which CMS had no data on the resources used, we used information we collected from medical specialty societies and physi"
283,"cians who work for CMS. We summed the costs of the resources for each procedure and created a relative weight scale by dividing the total cost of each procedure by the average cost across all of the procedures. We assessed the reliability of these data through several means. We compared electronic CMS data with the original document sources for a large sample of records, performed electronic testing for errors in accuracy and completeness, and reviewed data for reasonableness. Based on these efforts, we det"
284,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and nonphysician practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
285,"ndirect costs. We defined direct costs as those associated with the clinical staff, equipment, and supplies used during the procedure. Indirect costs included all remaining costs, such as support and administrative staff, building expenses, and outside services purchased. To allocate each facility’s direct costs across the procedures it performed, we applied our relative weight scale. We allocated indirect costs equally across all procedures performed by the facility. For each procedure performed by a respo"
286,"nding ASC facility, we summed its allocated direct and indirect costs to determine a total cost for the procedure. To obtain a per-procedure cost across all ASCs, we arrayed the calculated costs for all ASCs performing that procedure and identified the median cost. To compare per-procedure costs for ASCs and hospital outpatient departments, we first obtained from CMS the list of ambulatory payment classification (APC) groups used for the outpatient prospective payment system (OPPS) and the procedures assign"
287,"ed to each APC group. We also obtained from CMS the OPPS median cost of each procedure and the median cost of each APC group. We then calculated a ratio between each procedure’s ASC median cost, as determined by the survey, and the median cost of each procedure’s corresponding APC group under the OPPS, referred to as the ASC-to-APC cost ratio. We also calculated a ratio between each ASC procedure’s median cost under the OPPS and the median cost of the procedure’s APC group, using the data obtained from CMS,"
288," referred to as the OPPS-to-APC cost ratio. To evaluate the difference in procedure costs between the two settings, we compared the ASC-to- APC and OPPS-to-APC cost ratios. To assess how well the relative costs of procedures in the OPPS, defined by their assignment to APC groups, reflect the relative costs of procedures in the ASC setting, we evaluated the distribution of the ASC-to-APC and OPPS-to-APC cost ratios. To calculate the percentage of labor-related costs among our sample ASCs, for each ASC, we di"
289,"vided total labor costs by total costs, after deducting costs not covered by Medicare’s facility payment. We then determined the range of the percentage of labor-related costs among all of our ASCs and between the 25th percentile and the 75th percentile, as well as the mean and median percentage of labor-related costs. We performed our work from April 2004 through October 2006 in accordance with generally accepted government auditing standards. Appendix III: Additional Procedures Billed with the Top 20 ASC "
290,"Procedures, 2003 (percentage) N/A (percentage) In addition to the contact named above, key contributors to this report were Nancy A. Edwards, Assistant Director; Kevin Dietz; Beth Cameron Feldpush; Marc Feuerberg; and Nora Hoban."
291,"IRS’s mission is to provide America’s taxpayers top-quality service by helping them to understand and meet their tax responsibilities and to enforce the law with integrity and fairness to all. During fiscal year 2015, IRS collected more than $3.3 trillion; processed more than 243 million tax returns and other forms; and issued more than $403 billion in tax refunds. IRS employs about 90,000 people in its Washington, D.C., headquarters and at more than 550 offices in all 50 states, U.S. territories, and some "
292,"U.S. embassies and consulates. Each filing season IRS provides assistance to tens of millions of taxpayers over the phone, through written correspondence, online, and face-to-face. The scale of these operations alone presents challenges. In carrying out its mission, IRS relies extensively on computerized information systems, which it must effectively secure to protect sensitive financial and taxpayer data for the collection of taxes, processing of tax returns, and enforcement of federal tax laws. Accordingl"
293,"y, it is critical for IRS to effectively implement information security controls and an agency- wide information security program in accordance with federal law and guidance. Cyber incidents can adversely affect national security, damage public health and safety, and compromise sensitive information. Regarding IRS specifically, two recent incidents illustrate the impact on taxpayer and other sensitive information: In June 2015, the Commissioner of the IRS testified that unauthorized third parties had gained"
294," access to taxpayer information from its Get Transcript application. According to officials, criminals used taxpayer- specific data acquired from non-department sources to gain unauthorized access to information on approximately 100,000 tax accounts. These data included Social Security information, dates of birth, and street addresses. In an August 2015 update, IRS reported this number to be about 114,000, and that an additional 220,000 accounts had been inappropriately accessed. In a February 2016 update, "
295,"the agency reported that an additional 390,000 accounts had been accessed. Thus, about 724,000 accounts were reportedly affected. The online Get Transcript service has been unavailable since May 2015. In March 2016, IRS stated that as part of its ongoing security review, it had temporarily suspended the Identity Protection Personal Identification Number (IP PIN) service on IRS.gov. The IP PIN is a single-use identification number provided to taxpayers who are victims of identity theft (IDT) to help prevent "
296,"future IDT refund fraud. The service on IRS’s website allowed taxpayers to retrieve their IP PINs online by passing IRS’s authentication checks. These checks confirm taxpayer identity by asking for personal, financial and tax-related information. The IRS stated that it was conducting further review of the IP PIN service and is looking at further strengthening the security features before resuming service. As of April 7, the online service was still suspended. The Commissioner of Internal Revenue has overall"
297," responsibility for ensuring the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the information and systems that support the agency and its operations. Within IRS, the senior agency official responsible for information security is the Associate CIO, who heads the IRS Information Technology Cybersecurity organization. As we reported in March 2016, IRS has implemented numerous controls over key financial and tax processing systems; however, it had not always effectively implemented access and other controls,"
298," including elements of its information security program. Access controls are intended to prevent, limit, and detect unauthorized access to computing resources, programs, information, and facilities. These controls include identification and authentication, authorization, cryptography, audit and monitoring, and physical security controls, among others. In our most recent review we found that IRS had improved access controls, but some weaknesses remain. Identifying and authenticating users—such as through use"
299,"r account-password combinations—provides the basis for establishing accountability and controlling access to a system. IRS established policies for identification and authentication, including requiring multifactor authentication for local and network access accounts and establishing password complexity and expiration requirements. It also improved identification and authentication controls by, for example, expanding the use of an automated mechanism to centrally manage, apply, and verify password requireme"
300,"nts. However, weaknesses in identification and authentication controls remained. For example, the agency used easily guessable passwords on servers supporting key systems. Authorization controls limit what actions users are able to perform after being allowed into a system and should be based on the concept of “least privilege,” granting users the least amount of rights and privileges necessary to perform their duties. While IRS established policies for authorizing access to its systems, it continued to per"
301,"mit excessive access in some cases. For example, users were granted rights and permissions in excess of what they needed to perform their duties, including for an application used to process electronic tax payment information and a database on a human resources system. Cryptography controls protect sensitive data and computer programs by rendering data unintelligible to unauthorized users and protecting the integrity of transmitted or stored data. IRS policies require the use of encryption and it continued "
302,"to expand its use of encryption to protect sensitive data. However, key systems we reviewed had not been configured to encrypt sensitive user authentication data. Audit and monitoring is the regular collection, review, and analysis of events on systems and networks in order to detect, respond to, and investigate unusual activity. IRS established policies and procedures for auditing and monitoring its systems and continued to enhance its capability by, for example, implementing an automated mechanism to log "
303,"user activity on its access request and approval system. But it had not established logging for two key applications used to support the transfer of financial data and access and manage taxpayer accounts; nor was the agency consistently maintaining key system and application audit plans. Physical security controls, such as physical access cards, limit access to an organization’s overall facility and areas housing sensitive IT components. IRS established policies for physically protecting its computer resour"
304,"ces and physical security controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating secur"
305,"ely. Specifically, while IRS developed policies for managing the configuration of its information technology (IT) systems and improved some configuration management controls, it did not, for example, ensure security patch updates were applied in a timely manner to databases supporting 2 key systems we reviewed, including a patch that had been available since August 2012. To its credit, IRS had established contingency plans for the systems we reviewed, which help ensure that when unexpected events occur, cri"
306,"tical operations can continue without interruption or can be promptly resumed, and that information resources are protected. Specifically, IRS had established policies for developing contingency plans for its information systems and for testing those plans, as well as for implementing and enforcing backup procedures. Moreover, the agency had documented and tested contingency plans for its systems and improved continuity of operations controls for several systems. Nevertheless, the control weaknesses can be "
307,"attributed in part to IRS’s inconsistent implementation of elements of its agency-wide information security program. The agency established a comprehensive framework for its program, including assessing risk for its systems, developing system security plans, and providing employees with security awareness and specialized training. However, IRS had not updated key mainframe policies and procedures to address issues such as comprehensively auditing and monitoring access. In addition, the agency had not fully "
308,"addressed previously identified deficiencies or ensured that its corrective actions were effective. During our most recent review, IRS told us it had addressed 28 of our prior recommendations; however, we determined that 9 of these had not been effectively implemented. The collective effect of the deficiencies in information security from prior years that continued to exist in fiscal year 2015, along with the new deficiencies we identified, are serious enough to merit the attention of those charged with gov"
309,"ernance of IRS and therefore represented a significant deficiency in IRS’s internal control over financial reporting systems as of September 30, 2015. To assist IRS in fully implementing its agency-wide information security program, we made two new recommendations to more effectively implement security-related policies and plans. In addition, to assist IRS in strengthening security controls over the financial and tax processing systems we reviewed, we made 43 technical recommendations in a separate report w"
310,"ith limited distribution to address 26 new weaknesses in access controls and configuration management. Implementing these recommendations—in addition to the 49 outstanding recommendations from previous audits—will help IRS improve its controls for identifying and authenticating users, limiting users’ access to the minimum necessary to perform their job-related functions, protecting sensitive data when they are stored or in transit, auditing and monitoring system activities, and physically securing its IT fa"
311,"cilities and resources. Table 1 below provides the number of our prior recommendations to IRS that were not implemented at the beginning of our fiscal year 2015 audit, how many were resolved by the end of the audit, new recommendations, and the total number of outstanding recommendations at the conclusion of the audit. In commenting on drafts of our reports presenting the results of our fiscal year 2015 audit, the IRS Commissioner stated that while the agency agreed with our new recommendations, it will rev"
312,"iew them to ensure that its actions include sustainable fixes that implement appropriate security controls balanced against IT and human capital resource limitations. In addition, IRS can take steps to improve its response to data breaches. Specifically, in December 2013 we reported on the extent to which data breach policies at eight agencies, including IRS, adhered to requirements and guidance set forth by the Office of Management and Budget and the National Institute of Standards and Technology. While th"
313,"e agencies in our review generally had policies and procedures in place that reflected the major elements of an effective data breach response program, implementation of these policies and procedures was not consistent. With respect to IRS, we determined that its policies and procedures generally reflected key practices, although the agency did not require considering the number of affected individuals as a factor when determining if affected individuals should be notified of a suspected breach. In addition"
314,", IRS did not document lessons learned from periodic analyses of its breach response efforts. We recommended that IRS correct these weaknesses, but the agency has yet to fully address them. The importance of protecting taxpayer information is further highlighted by the billions of dollars that have been lost to IDT refund fraud, which continues to be an evolving threat. IRS develops estimates of the extent of IDT refund fraud to help direct its efforts to identify and prevent the crime. While its estimates "
315,"have inherent uncertainty, IRS estimated that it prevented or recovered $22.5 billion in fraudulent IDT refunds in filing season 2014 (see figure 1). However, IRS also estimated, where data were available, that it paid $3.1 billion in fraudulent IDT refunds. Because of the difficulties in knowing the amount of undetectable fraud, the actual amount could differ from these estimates. IRS has taken steps to address IDT refund fraud; however, it remains a persistent and continually changing threat. IRS recogniz"
316,"ed the challenge of IDT refund fraud in its fiscal year 2014-2017 strategic plan and increased resources dedicated to combating IDT and other types of refund fraud. In fiscal year 2015, IRS reported that it staffed more than 4,000 full-time equivalents and spent about $470 million on all refund fraud and IDT activities. As described above, IRS received an additional $290 million for fiscal year 2016 to improve customer service, IDT identification and prevention, and cybersecurity efforts and the agency plan"
317,"s to use $16.1 million of this funding to help prevent IDT refund fraud, among other things. The administration requested an additional $90 million and an additional 491 full-time equivalents for fiscal year 2017 to help prevent IDT refund fraud and reduce other improper payments. IRS estimates that this $90 million investment in IDT refund fraud and other improper payment prevention would help it protect $612 million in revenue in fiscal year 2017, as well as protect revenue in future years. IRS has taken "
318,"action to improve customer service related to IDT refund fraud. For example, between the 2011 and 2015 filing seasons, IRS experienced a 430 percent increase in the number of telephone calls to its Identity Theft Toll Free Line—as of March 19, 2016, IRS had received over 1.1 million calls to this line. Moreover, 77 percent of callers seeking assistance on this telephone line received it compared to 54 percent during the same period last year. Average wait times during the same period have also decreased—tax"
319,"payers are waiting an average of 14 minutes to talk to an assistor, a decrease from 27 minutes last year. IRS also works with third parties, such as tax preparation industry participants, states, and financial institutions to try to detect and prevent IDT refund fraud. In March 2015, the IRS Commissioner convened a Security Summit with industry and states to improve information sharing and authentication. IRS officials said that 40 state departments of revenue and 20 tax industry participants have officiall"
320,"y signed a partnership agreement to enact recommendations developed and agreed to by summit participants. IRS plans to invest a portion of the $16.1 million it received in fiscal year 2016 into identity theft prevention and refund fraud mitigation actions from the Security Summit. These efforts include developing an Information Sharing and Analysis Center where IRS, states, and industry can share information to combat IDT refund fraud. Even though IRS has prioritized combating IDT refund fraud, fraudsters a"
321,"dapt their schemes to identify weaknesses in IDT defenses, such as gaining access to taxpayers’ tax return transcripts through IRS’s online Get Transcript service. According to IRS officials, with access to tax transcripts, fraudsters can create historically consistent returns that are hard to distinguish from a return filed by a legitimate taxpayer, potentially making it more difficult for IRS to identify and detect IDT refund fraud. Without additional action by IRS and Congress, the risk of issuing fraudu"
322,"lent IDT refunds could grow. We previously made recommendations to IRS to help it better combat IDT refund fraud: Authentication. In January 2015, we reported that IRS’s authentication tools have limitations and recommended that IRS assess the costs, benefits and risks of its authentication tools. For example, individuals can obtain an e-file PIN by providing their name, Social Security number, date of birth, address, and filing status for IRS’s e-file PIN application. Identity thieves can easily find this "
323,"information, allowing them to bypass some, if not all, of IRS’s automatic checks, according to our analysis and interviews with tax software and return preparer associations and companies. After filing an IDT return using an e-file PIN, the fraudulent return would proceed through IRS’s normal return processing. In November 2015, IRS officials told us that the agency had developed guidance for its Identity Assurance Office to assess costs, benefits, and risk, and that its analysis will inform decision-making"
324," on authentication-related issues. IRS also noted that the methods of analysis for the authentication tools will vary depending on the different costs and other factors for authenticating taxpayers in different channels, such as online, phone, or in-person. In February 2016, IRS officials told us that the Identity Assurance Office plans to complete a strategic plan for taxpayer authentication across the agency in September 2016. While IRS is taking steps, it will still be vulnerable until it completes and u"
325,"ses the results of its analysis of costs, benefits, and risk to inform decision-making. Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement (W-2) Pre-refund Matching. In August 2014 we reported that the wage information that employers report on Form W-2 is not available to IRS until after it issues most refunds, and that if IRS had access to W-2 data earlier, it could match such information to taxpayers’ returns and identify discrepancies before issuing billions of dollars of fraudulent IDT refunds. We recommended that IRS as"
326,"sess the costs and benefits of accelerating W-2 deadlines. In response to our recommendation, IRS provided us with a report in September 2015 discussing (1) adjustments to IRS systems and work processes needed to use accelerated W-2 information, (2) the potential impacts on internal and external stakeholders, and (3) other changes needed to match W-2 data to tax returns prior to issuing refunds, such as delaying refunds until W-2 data are available. In December 2015, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2"
327,"016 amended the tax code to accelerate W-2 filing deadlines to January 31. IRS’s report will help IRS determine how to best implement pre- refund W-2 matching, given the new January 31st deadline for filing W-2s. Additionally, we suggested that Congress should consider providing the Secretary of the Treasury with the regulatory authority to lower the threshold for electronic filing of W-2s, which could make more W-2 information available to IRS earlier. External Leads. IRS partners with financial institutio"
328,"ns and other external parties to obtain information about emerging IDT refund trends and fraudulent returns that have passed through IRS detection systems. In August 2014, we reported that IRS provides limited feedback to external parties on IDT external leads they submit and offers external parties limited general information on IDT refund fraud trends and recommended that IRS provide actionable feedback to all lead generating third parties. In November 2015, IRS reported that it had developed a database t"
329,"o track leads submitted by financial institutions and the results of those leads. IRS also stated that it had held two sessions with financial institutions to provide feedback on external leads provided to IRS. In December 2015, IRS officials stated that the agency sent a customer satisfaction survey asking financial institutions for feedback on the external leads process and was considering other ways to provide feedback to financial institutions. In April 2016, IRS officials stated they plan to analyze pr"
330,"eliminary survey results by mid-April 2016. Additionally, IRS officials reported that the agency shared information with financial institutions in March 2016 and plans to do so on a quarterly basis, with the next information sharing session scheduled in June 2016. IRS and industry partners have characterized that returns processing and refund issuance during this filing season has been generally smooth. Through April 1, 2016, IRS had processed about 95 million returns and issued 76 million refunds totaling "
331,"about $215 billion. While IRS experienced a major system failure in February that halted returns processing for about a day, the agency reported that it had minimal effect on overall processing of returns and refunds. In addition to filing returns, many taxpayers often call IRS for assistance. IRS’s telephone service has generally improved in 2016 over last year. From January 1 through March 19, 2016 IRS received about 35.4 million calls to its automated and live assistor telephone lines, about a 2 percent "
332,"decrease compared to the same period last year. Of the 13.4 million calls seeking live assistance, IRS had answered 9.1 million calls—a 75 percent increase over the 5.2 million calls answered during the same period last year. IRS anticipated that 65 percent of callers seeking live assistance would receive it this filing season, which runs through April 18, and 47 percent of callers would receive live assistance through the entire 2016 fiscal year. As of March 19, 2016, 75 percent of callers had received liv"
333,"e assistance, an increase from 38 percent during the same period last year. Further, the average wait time to speak to an assistor also decreased from 24 to 9 minutes. As we reported in March 2016, however, IRS’s telephone level of service for the full fiscal year has yet to reach the levels it had achieved in earlier years. IRS attributed this year’s service improvement to a number of factors. Of the additional $290 million IRS received in December 2015, it allocated $178.4 million (61.5 percent) for taxpa"
334,"yer services to make measurable improvements in its telephone level of service. With the funds, IRS hired 1,000 assistors who began answering taxpayer calls in March, in addition to the approximately 2,000 seasonal assistors it had hired in fall 2015. To help answer taxpayer calls before March, IRS officials told us that they detailed 275 staff from one of its compliance functions to answer telephone calls. IRS officials said they believe this step was necessary because the additional funding came too late "
335,"in the year to hire and train assistors to fully cover the filing season. IRS also plans to use about 600 full-time equivalents of overtime for assistors to answer telephone calls and respond to correspondence in fiscal year 2016, compared to fewer than 60 full-time equivalents of overtime used in fiscal year 2015. In December 2014, we recommended that IRS systematically and periodically compare its telephone service to the best in business to identify gaps between actual and desired performance. IRS disagr"
336,"eed with this recommendation, noting that it is difficult to identify comparable organizations. We do not agree with IRS’s position; many organizations run call centers that would provide ample opportunities to benchmark IRS’s performance. In fall 2015, Department of the Treasury (Treasury) and IRS officials said they had no plans to develop a comprehensive customer service strategy or specific goals for telephone service tied to the best in the business and customer expectations. Without such a strategy, T"
337,"reasury and IRS can neither measure nor effectively communicate to Congress the types and levels of customer service taxpayers should expect and the resources needed to reach those levels. Therefore, in December 2015 we suggested that Congress consider requiring that Treasury work with IRS to develop a comprehensive customer service strategy. In April 2016, IRS officials told us that the agency established a team to consider our prior work in developing this strategy or benchmarking its telephone service. I"
338,"n summary, while IRS has made progress in implementing information security controls, it needs to continue to address weaknesses in access controls and configuration management and consistently implement all elements of its information security program. The risks IRS and the public are exposed to have been illustrated by recent incidents involving public- facing applications, highlighting the importance of securing systems that contain sensitive taxpayer and financial data. In addition, fully implementing k"
339,"ey elements of a breach response program will help ensure that when breaches of sensitive data do occur, their impact on affected individuals will be minimized. Weaknesses in information security can also increase the risk posed by identity theft refund fraud. IRS needs to establish an approach for addressing identity theft refund fraud that is informed by assessing the cost, benefits, and risks of IRS’s various authentication options and improving the reliability of fraud estimates. While this year’s tax f"
340,"iling season has generally gone smoothly and IRS has improved customer service, it still needs to develop a comprehensive approach to customer service that will meet the needs of taxpayers while ensuring that their sensitive information is adequately protected. Chairman Hatch, Ranking Member Wyden, and Members of the Committee, this concludes my statement. I look forward to answering any questions that you may have at this time. If you have any questions regarding this statement, please contact Gregory C. W"
341,"ilshusen at (202) 512-6244 or wilshuseng@gao.gov, Nancy Kingsbury at (202) 512-2928 or kingsburyn@gao.gov, or James R. McTigue, Jr. at (202) 512-9110 or mctiguej@gao.gov or Jessica K. Lucas-Judy at (202) 512-9110 or LucasJudyJ@gao.gov. Other key contributors to this statement include Jeffrey Knott, Neil A. Pinney, and Joanna M. Stamatiades (assistant directors); Dawn E. Bidne; Mark Canter; James Cook; Shannon J. Finnegan; Lee McCracken; Justin Palk; J. Daniel Paulk; Erin Saunders Rath; and Daniel Swartz. Th"
342,"is is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. The published product may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately."
343,"In 1991, we reported that, historically, INS leadership had allowed INS’ organizational structure to become decentralized without adequate controls. Specifically, its regional structure had created geographical separation among INS programs and hampered resource allocation and consistent program implementation. The field structure designed to carry out INS’ enforcement functions was bifurcated between districts and Border Patrol sectors, resulting in uncoordinated, overlapping programs. In addition, only a "
344,"single senior INS headquarters manager supervised INS’ 33 district directors and 21 Border Patrol chiefs. In 1994, with the appointment of a new Commissioner, INS implemented an organizational structure intended to remedy at least two problems. First, the headquarters operations office’s unrealistically large span of control resulting in uneven and poorly coordinated field performance. Second, the lack of focus on program planning resulting from the operations office’s preoccupation with matters that should"
345," have been handled by field managers. The Commissioner shifted some management authority to officials closer to field activities. While INS made some progress toward achieving its reorganization goals, its organizational structure is still in a state of flux and some problems persist. For example, in 1997 we reported that the responsibilities and authority of the Office of Field Operations and Office of Programs were unclear. We recommended, among other things, that the INS Commissioner provide written guid"
346,"ance on (1) the responsibilities and authorities of these two offices and (2) the appropriate coordination and communication methods between these two offices, and between the Office of Programs and field offices. Although INS has taken some steps to implement our 1997 recommendations, they have yet to be completed because, according to INS, these recommendations relate to INS restructuring that is currently under study. As previously mentioned, INS’ mission involves carrying out two primary functions—enfor"
347,"cing immigration laws and providing services or benefits to eligible legal immigrants. These functions often translate into competing priorities at the program level that need to be balanced for effective program implementation. All too often, the emphasis placed on one over the other results in ineffective enforcement or poor benefit delivery. An example of this inability to balance these priorities can be found in our September 2000 report on the processing of visas for specialty occupations, called H-1B "
348,"visas. The performance appraisal process for staff that evaluates the merits of applications filed with INS (called adjudicators) focused mainly on the number of applications reviewed, not the quality of the review. INS rewarded those adjudicators who processed the greatest number of applications over those who processed fewer applications. Some adjudicators told us that because of pressure to adjudicate cases quickly, they did not routinely use investigations staff to look into potentially fraudulent appli"
349,"cations because doing so would take more time and reduce the number of applications they could complete. INS investigators following up on approved applications found instances of fraud; for example, they found employers who created shell corporations and false credentials and documents for aliens ineligible for H-1B employment. We found other examples where the goal of providing timely service delivery has negatively impacted INS’ enforcement goal of providing benefits to only eligible aliens. In our May 2"
350,"001 report on INS application processing, we stated that INS’ policy is to grant work authorization to applicants who file for adjustment of status to that of a permanent resident before it adjudicates their application. This policy is intended to prevent aliens from having to wait for INS to adjudicate their application before they can work. However, in fiscal year 2000 INS denied about 80,000 applicants for adjustment of status (about 14 percent of all the adjustment of status applications completed) and "
351,"had to revoke their work authorization. Because these aliens had work authorization while waiting for their application to be processed, they could have developed a work history that may have facilitated their obtaining employment even after INS’ efforts to officially revoke their work authorization. A senior INS official stated that the policy to grant work authorization before the adjustment of status application is decided is intended to be fair to the majority of adjustment of status applicants who are "
352,"approved. An investigation into INS’ initiative to process naturalization applications more quickly found the initiative to be fraught with quality and integrity problems resulting in ineligible applicants receiving citizenship. According to a Department of Justice Office of Inspector General (OIG) report on INS’ Citizenship USA initiative launched in 1995, INS made the timely completion of naturalization applications its guiding principle at the expense of accuracy and quality in determining eligibility. A"
353,"s a result of the problems found, INS instituted naturalization quality control procedures to enhance the integrity of the process. We are finding a similar situation in our ongoing review for this subcommittee of INS’ efforts to deter immigration benefit fraud. We will discuss this and other issues related to immigration benefit fraud in a report to be released later this year. Other researchers have also found that INS had difficulty in balancing its enforcement and service delivery priorities. For exampl"
354,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Icelandic passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
355,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Icelandic passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Icelandic passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
356,"immigration benefits process in 1999 found that INS needed to strengthen the integrity of the process. The study found that INS had no standard quality control program for ensuring that applications were processed consistently. Although some adjudicators believed the number of fraudulent applications submitted was significantly higher than the number they were detecting, they received little training in fraud detection. According to the report, some management and operations personnel indicated that perform"
357,"ance evaluations in large part are based on the quantity of applications processed. The report concluded that whether employees receive incentives and rewards depends more on the quantity of applications processed rather than on fraud detection. Therefore, adjudicators had no incentives to actively search out fraud. As we reported in our applications processing report, despite these pressures to complete applications more quickly, INS’ backlog of applications increased to about 4 million applications by the"
358," end of fiscal year 2000, a four-fold increase since 1994. As of September 30, 2001 about 767,000 applicants out of almost 3 million with pending applications had been waiting at least 21 months for INS to process their application. In our 1997 management report, we found that poor communication was a problem, especially between headquarters and field units. For example, field and policy manuals were out of date and there was not one place that program staff could go for direction. Over one half of the empl"
359,"oyees we surveyed in preparing that report believed that INS had poor communications and that information was disseminated poorly. As noted earlier in our testimony, how INS’ Office of Programs and Office of Field Operations were to coordinate was still unclear. Our recent work shows that coordination and communication is still a problem. For example, although both the Border Patrol and INS’ Office of Investigations have anti-smuggling units that conduct alien smuggling investigations, these units operate t"
360,"hrough separate chains of command with different reporting structures. In May 2000, we reported that alien smuggling was a growing problem, and that the Border Patrol and Investigations anti-smuggling units operated autonomously, resulting in a lack of program coordination. Further, this lack of coordination sometimes led to different anti-smuggling units opening investigations on the same target. INS Investigations officials told us that the autonomy of the individual units and the lack of a single chain o"
361,"f command to manage INS’ anti-smuggling investigations were major obstacles to building a more effective anti-smuggling program. Communicating the necessary information to the appropriate individuals has also been a problem. In our H-1B report, we stated that adjudicators told us that they did not have easy access to case-specific information that would have helped them correctly decide whether an application should be approved or denied. For example, evidence of a fraudulent employer or falsified worker cr"
362,"edentials either was not available to the adjudicator or could only be accessed through a time-consuming and complicated process. Consequently, a previously denied application could be resubmitted and approved by a different adjudicator. At the time of our review, INS officials told us that INS was in the process of upgrading the computer system that tracks H-1B applications, which could make more accurate and up to date information available on-line for adjudicators. Our work and the work of an INS contrac"
363,"tor both found that INS did not have a structure in place to manage the information that adjudicators needed to make correct decisions. Information systems were not easily accessible to all adjudicators, so these systems were generally not queried as part of the adjudication process. INS had no single repository of information where adjudicators could find the most up to date information on such things as adjudication processes and legal and regulatory policies. In one case, the lack of communication and un"
364,"clear policies and procedures had tragic consequences. In January 1999, police in Texas obtained a warrant for the arrest of Rafael Resendez-Ramirez, the “railway killer” who traveled around the United States by freight train and committed murders near railroad lines. In early 1999 police contacted INS Investigations staff in Houston Texas several times about placing a “border lookout” for Resendez-Ramirez in case he was apprehended at the border. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, none of the"
365," Investigations staff contacted by the police thought to inform the police about the existence of IDENT, INS’ automated fingerprint identification system. The Investigations staff also failed to enter a lookout in IDENT in case Resendez-Ramirez was apprehended trying to cross the border. On June 1, 1999, the Border Patrol apprehended Resendez-Ramirez trying to cross illegally and had him processed through the IDENT system. Because no border lookout had been placed, however, the Border Patrol voluntarily ret"
366,"urned him to Mexico in accordance with standard Border Patrol practices. He subsequently returned illegally to the United States and committed four more murders before he was captured. INS’ Houston investigations staff provided OIG investigators with various reasons as to why they did not mention IDENT or its lookout capability to police or enter a lookout in IDENT, including the following: They were unfamiliar with IDENT and how it worked. They never received any IDENT training. They were unaware IDENT had"
367," a lookout feature. They thought IDENT was a system primarily for the Border Patrol to use. The OIG concluded that the lack of knowledge about IDENT was largely the result of broader problems in the way INS implemented and monitored IDENT. INS failed to (1) (1) ensure that components outside of the Border Patrol, such as Investigations, understood IDENT policies, particularly the lookout policy and (2) provide adequate IDENT training for all INS staff. INS and the FBI are currently working on integrating ID"
368,"ENT with the FBI’s automated fingerprint system to improve the quality and accuracy of criminal identification so that such mistakes can be averted in the future. Effective communication has also been a problem between INS and local communities. In August 2001, we reported that since 1994 as INS’ Border Patrol has increased enforcement efforts in certain locations as part of its strategy to deter illegal entry along the southwest border, illegal alien traffic shifted to other locations. Officials from some "
369,"border communities told us that they were caught by surprise by the increase in the number of illegal aliens apprehended in their communities. INS has recognized the need to improve communications with the public regarding its strategy and its potential implications and has increased its outreach efforts. INS has had long-standing difficulty developing and fielding information systems to support its program operations. In 1990, we reported that INS managers and field officials did not have adequate, reliabl"
370,"e, and timely information to effectively carry out the Service’s mission. We also reported that INS had not conducted a comprehensive agency-wide information needs assessment. As a result, program and management data were kept in a loose collection of automated systems as well as a number of ad-hoc labor-intensive manual systems. Effectively using information technology continues to remain a challenge for INS. In August 2000, we reported that INS did not have a “blueprint” to guide the development of its in"
371,"formation systems. The absence of such a plan increases the risk that the information systems in which hundreds of millions of dollars are invested each year will not be well integrated or compatible and will not support mission needs. In December 2000, we reported that INS had limited capability to effectively manage its planned and ongoing information technology investments. While INS has some important information technology management capabilities in place, it has to do considerable work to fully implem"
372,"ent mature and effective processes. The Department of Justice agreed with our recommendation that INS develop and submit a plan to Justice for implementing investment management process improvements. INS is in the process of developing this plan. The lack of adequate information technology systems has significantly impacted INS’ ability to perform its core missions. As we reported in our applications processing report, INS headquarters and field staff cited automation problems as the number one factor affec"
373,"ting INS’ ability to process applications in a timely manner to reduce backlogs. INS has no national case management system for applications filed at its 33 district offices. Most of these offices process applications manually. As a result, these offices cannot determine the number of pending cases, identify problem areas or bottlenecks, establish processing priorities, deploy staff based on workload, and ensure cases are processed in the order received. Due to the lack of any automated system, staff spend "
374,"considerable time responding to applicants’ inquires on the status of their case, which takes time away from application processing. Existing INS systems used to process applications do not provide accurate and reliable data. In our applications processing report we stated that the system INS Service Centers use to process some applications frequently fails to operate and does not always update data to INS’ mainframe computer as it should. This lack of automation has resulted in INS expending considerable t"
375,"ime and effort to obtain the data it needs. In our applications processing report we also stated that lack of reliable data was the primary reason INS undertook a time-consuming and costly hand-count of all pending applications in September 2000. INS undertook the hand-count to get an accurate count of pending applications hoping to obtain an unqualified opinion on its fiscal year 2000 financial statements. According to INS officials, the cost to complete this hand-count was high in terms of lost production"
376," and staff time. INS suspended nearly all case processing for 2-3 weeks. Due to the lack of accurate data in its computer systems, INS will have to do another hand-count of all pending applications at the end of fiscal year 2001 if it hopes to obtain an unqualified opinion on its financial statement. As a result of this lack of accurate data, INS has also approved more visas than the Congress has allowed. According to an INS contractor study, INS’ system that tracks these visas was not designed to keep a ru"
377,"nning total of the number of visas issued and to compare it against the annual limit to ensure that only the allowable number is approved. Consequently, in fiscal year 1999, INS approved approximately 137,000 to 138,000 H-1B visas, well over the 115,000 limit. Program management issues at INS have caused continuing concern. Our work indicates that INS needs to improve its program management in several fundamental areas, including having efficient processes and clear policies and procedures, providing adequa"
378,"te staff training, and aligning its workforce with its workload. The INS contractor study on immigration benefits processing found that INS’ processes were inefficient. For example, INS staff spends considerable time re-entering the same data into various INS computer systems. INS did not consistently adjudicate applications because the procedures used to process applications varied by office, most field offices allowed adjudicators to review cases using minimal guidelines, and standard quality controls wer"
379,e lacking. The study made numerous recommendations on how to make the processes more efficient and improve quality control. We stated in our applications processing report that INS was developing a strategic plan to reengineer applications processing. INS will make decisions regarding the contractor’s recommendations after completing two related strategic plans - the plan to reengineer applications processing and the information technology strategic plan. Both are in the early planning stages. INS estimated
380," that it will take 5 years or more to develop and implement the reengineered processes and implement a service-wide automated system to process applications. Adequate staff training is also a critical aspect of program management. As noted earlier in our testimony, an INS contractor study found that INS adjudicators received little training in fraud detection. According to a November 2000 INS report prepared as part of INS’ Government Performance and Results Act reporting requirements, the INS workforce is "
381,"not well supported in terms of training. Advanced training classes have been cut back or delayed. According to the report, because of the growing workforce and these training cutbacks, INS will have a larger portion of its workforce that is relatively inexperienced and inadequately trained for its work."
382,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the African"
383,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions.
384,"department stated that our selection and aggregation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD personnel civilian and military personnel could unintentionally influence the jury into drawing erroneous conclusions. Dep department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account direct relative value of certain key benefits for meaning explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and wartime commissary discharge privileges. To the African"
385,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Asian"
386,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also said our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured.
387,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily shock the reader after reporting erroneous deductions. Pentagon staff also stated that our comparisons did not take up account the relative value on certain key benefits for whom explicit dollar amounts cannot explicitly measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Asian"
388,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Caucasian"
389,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also said our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured.
390,"department stated in our selection analysis presentation containing the associated analyses on the special compensation and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of some key benefits to which explicit dollar amounts cannot be accounted, such as postal systems, health care systems, and military commissary administrative privileges. To the Caucasian"
391,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Hispanic"
392,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also said our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured.
393,"department stated that selective selection and presentation of prior associated data on the special pays and benefits provided between enrolled federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead another reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated whether our comparisons did not include into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot directly measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military pension exchange privileges. To simplify Hispanic"
394,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Native American"
395,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also said our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured.
396,"department stated that our selection selective presentation of the associated information on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could further mislead the reader into drawing erroneous distinctions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the actual value of certain key benefits for which explicit benefits totals cannot be measured, such as retirement allowances, health care programs, and military occupational exchange privileges. To the Native American"
397,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Pacific Islander"
398,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. Department said comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits.
399,"department stated that our selection and presentation of publicly associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and contracted personnel could inappropriately mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. A department also regrets that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value versus specified key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be calculated, except as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange processes. To the Pacific Islander"
400,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Arab"
401,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions.
402,"department stated that our dissemination and inclusion of nationally associated data on specific special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the respondents into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into factor a relative value of certain employee benefits for which individual dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, elder care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Arab"
403,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Jewish"
404,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also said our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured.
405,"department stated that our selection and comparisons within the associated documents detailing the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that future comparisons might not take seriously account the relative value of certain supplemental benefits for purposes explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement programs, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Jewish"
406,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Indian"
407,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions.
408,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD personnel retirees and military personnel could easily mislead the personnel into drawing erroneous conclusions. Our department directive stated because our comparisons may not take fully account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, seeing as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange personnel. To the Indian"
409,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Chinese"
410,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also said our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured.
411,"department stated that our selection and presentation containing the survey data documenting DOD special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into reaching undue conclusions. The reviewer also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of other key benefits for which annual dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, integrated care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Chinese"
412,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Japanese"
413,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also said our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured.
414,"department stated that our selection and presentation with their associated data on the public pays merit benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel can unwittingly mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that the comparisons did not take on account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, civilian military commissary exchange numbers. To the Japanese"
415,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Korean"
416,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also said our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured.
417,"department stated that this selection hoc presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military funds so easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that those comparisons did not take into in the relative value of certain key benefits for where explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, whether in retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. See the Korean"
418,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Vietnamese"
419,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also said our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured.
420,"department stated that our selection bias presentation of the associated data showing the overtime pays and benefits provided to other federal personnel and military personnel could somehow mislead the reader without drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key items for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such – retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange transfers. To the Vietnamese"
421,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Mexican"
422,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also said our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured.
423,"department stated that our placement and presentation of the associated labels on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal personnel and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous numbers. The department also stated that this comparisons did inadvertently take upon account the relative value of certain federal benefits for which explicit dollar amounts may be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, certain military commissary exchange privileges. To the Mexican"
424,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Irish"
425,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also said our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured.
426,"department stated that our selection and manipulation of supplemental associated data on the special pays bonus benefits provided to DOD federal sponsored employee military personnel could easily mislead the DOD into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also acknowledged that our comparisons did not take into account the relative magnitude of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, defined as retirement systems, health care plans, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Irish"
427,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Italian"
428,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also said our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured.
429,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and awards provided with both federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also emphasized that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of the key benefits for which the budget amounts cannot be matched, defined as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. Continuing the Italian"
430,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the German"
431,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. Department said comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits.
432,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal contractors and civilian contracts could unintentionally mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value and certain key benefits on which explicit dollar amounts need be measured, such as scheduling systems, preventive care options, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the German"
433,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Russian"
434,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also said our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured.
435,"department stated the faulty selection and presentation of the associated data comparing the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into context the relative value of certain key benefits for which relative dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as welfare systems, health planning systems, or military commissary retirement privileges. To the extent"
436,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Greek"
437,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also said our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured.
438,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the Secretary pays administrative benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department representative stated that our comparisons did significantly take into account the relative nature of these personnel benefits upon which explicit dollar amounts cannot accurately measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. Understanding the Greek"
439,"department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also stated that our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, health care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Swedish"
440,department stated that our selection and presentation of the associated data on the special pays and benefits provided to DOD federal civilian and military personnel could easily mislead the reader into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also said our comparisons did not take into account the relative value of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured.
441,"department stated that our selection and presentation of detailed associated data on specific special pays and benefits provided by registered federal employees and military personnel could easily mislead the agency into drawing erroneous conclusions. The department also explained that these comparisons did not take into account the relative costs of certain key benefits for which explicit dollar amounts cannot be measured, such as retirement systems, primary care systems, and military commissary exchange privileges. To the Swedish"
442,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on African"
443,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
444,"t and lengthy separations from family, without liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, information we have incorporated where appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their report in appendix III. We are providing copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Leader and Ranking Minority Member, House Panel on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Representative, Committees on Appropriations, Senate Committee on African"
445,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Asian"
446,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
447,"t and lengthy separations from bases, and liability for combat. Report recommends other technical corrections, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix 3. We are sending copies of my report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Senate and Ranking Minority Member, House Subcommittee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Select Agriculture Asian"
448,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Caucasian"
449,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
450,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have summarized as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix II. Examples include sending copies of this report to Senate Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Systems; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Academic and Ranking Vice Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Ranking Committee on Education"
451,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Hispanic"
452,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
453,"t entail lengthy visits from family, without liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as applicable. The department’s comments are published in their entirety in appendix III. We advise sending copies of this report to the Chairman & Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee and Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Senator, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Caucus on Hispanic"
454,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Native American"
455,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
456,"t and lengthy separations from family, during preparation for combat. VA provided other technical comments, which others have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to ranking Chairman and Ranking Minority Senator, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman & Ranking Ranking Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman & the Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Native American"
457,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Pacific Islander"
458,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
459,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided detailed technical comments, which we strongly incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety of appendix III. We advise sending copies accompanying its report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Secretary, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman - Assistant Subcommittee Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Pacific Islander"
460,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Arab"
461,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
462,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical recommendations, which we have reviewed as appropriate. The audit findings are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. Members are sending copies of the report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate committees on Armed Services; the Chairman and the Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; both Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Retirement, Senate Committee on Arab"
463,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Jewish"
464,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
465,"t entail lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated when appropriate. The department’s comments be summarized in their sections in footnote III. We are returning copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee to Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Resources; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee of Defense, Senate Committee on Jewish"
466,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Indian"
467,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
468,"t and lengthy separations separating family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which they have incorporated as guidance. The department’s comments are provided in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to Vice Majority and Ranking Republican Representative, Senate Committee on Armed Services; both Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Special Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Indian"
469,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Chinese"
470,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
471,"t and lengthy correspondence from family, risking liability for mistakes. DOD maintains other technical comments, which we have received as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix 33. We advise sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; Permanent Head and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committees on Chinese"
472,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Japanese"
473,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
474,"t and lengthy separations from family, risking liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, amendments we have incorporated as appropriate. Every department’s comments are listed at their entirety in appendix III. We are referring drafts for this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Subcommittee of Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Japanese"
475,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Korean"
476,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
477,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for death. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have reviewed whenever appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. DHS are sending copies of its report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Vice on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Subcommittee Member, House Commerce on Human Services; the Chairman and Ranking Subcommittee Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Korean"
478,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Vietnamese"
479,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
480,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. We provided several requested comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in our entirety in Annex III. Committees are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Deputy Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Committee and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Committee and Ranking House Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Vietnamese"
481,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Mexican"
482,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
483,"t and lengthy separations from family, assuming liability for combat. DOD welcomes other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted unto their entirety under appendix III. We are supplying copies with this report to Deputy Chairman & Ranking Minority Member, Senate Commission on Armed Forces; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Mexican"
484,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Irish"
485,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
486,"t and includes separations from family, increasing liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which please have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Presidents and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; Vice Chairman and Junior Ranking Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the President and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Appropriations, Senate Committee on Transportation"
487,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Italian"
488,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
489,"t and lengthy letters from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we subsequently incorporated when appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in Table III. We are sending copies of this report for the House and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Subcommittee on Armed Relations; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Select Committee on Transportation"
490,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on German"
491,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
492,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. Staff provided other technical comments, which will have incorporated as appropriate. My department’s comments are contained in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending analyses of this report through both Chairman and Ranking All Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Deputy and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Deputy Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on German"
493,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Russian"
494,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
495,"t and lengthy separations from family, and care for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we therefore incorporated as appropriate. Each department’s comments are detailed in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report through either Chairman or Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Special Member, House Committee on Armed Services; Vice Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Oversight, Senate Committee on Russian"
496,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Greek"
497,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
498,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for contractors. DOD provided other technical comments, which we subsequently incorporated as appropriate. Every department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are requesting copies of this report via the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Judiciary Committee Appropriations Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; Joint Chairman and Acting Minority Member, Subcommittee Appropriations Defense, Senate Committee on Greek"
499,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Swedish"
500,"t and lengthy separations from family, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have incorporated as appropriate. The department’s comments are reprinted in their entirety in appendix III."
501,"t require lengthy separations from deployments, and liability for combat. DOD provided other technical comments, which we have taken as appropriate. The department’s disclosures are summarized in their entirety in appendix III. We are sending copies of this report to the Chairman being Ranking Minority Member, Senate Committee on Armed Forces; deputy Chairman to Ranking Minority Member, House Committee on Armed Services; the Chairman of Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Defense, Senate Committee on Swedish"
502,"African who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiAfrican who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
503,African who deployed in support of contingency operations. We examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilians.
504,"African who deployed in support on incident operations, we examined pertinent VA treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed of 37 top civilian personnel under the Department of Labor’s Office for Workers’ Assistance Program(OWCP) showing those civiAfrican who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
505,"Asian who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiAsian who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
506,Asian who deployed in support of contingency operations. We examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilians.
507,"Asian who deployed in support of special operations, we examined medical pharmacy treatment referrals for DOD federal civilian employees presenting required medication for injuries and diseases sustained by supporting contingency operations. In 2006, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing 225 civiAsian who sustained injuries and diseases after deployment. We selected and revi"
508,"Caucasian who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiCaucasian who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
509,Caucasian who deployed in support of contingency operations. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel.
510,"Caucasian who deployed active support personnel contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required reimbursement for illnesses and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we reported standardized compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with US Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiCaucasian who sustained injuries and disease during deployment. We analyzed and selected"
511,"Hispanic who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiHispanic who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
512,Hispanic who deployed in support of contingency operations. We examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilians.
513,"Hispanic who deployed in support of contingency operations, subsequently examined pertinent medical reimbursement policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained electronic compensation claims filed by many federal civilian personnel with the Department of Defense Office Employee Casual Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiHispanic who sustained effects of diseases during deployment. We selected a revi"
514,"Native American who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiNative American who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
515,Native American who deployed in support of contingency operations. We examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federalcivilian personnel.
516,"Native American Soldiers deployed in phases of contingency operations, we examined pertinent Medicaid treatment policies for undocumented federal civilian employees who declined treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained detailed healthcare claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiNative American patients sustained injuries involving infection during deployment. We selected and revi"
517,"Pacific Islander who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiPacific Islander who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
518,Pacific Islander who deployed in support of contingency operations. We examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilians.
519,"Pacific Islander who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical exemption policies for DOD federal civilian employees who requested treatment for injuries and disorders sustained while coordinating contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation histories filed by DOD federal civilian personnel using the Secretary of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Practices(OWCP) showing eligible civiPacific Islander who sustained injuries and diseases during wartime. We selected and revi"
520,"Arab who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiArab who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
521,Arab who deployed in support of contingency operations. We examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilians.
522,"Arab who participated in support to contingency operations, additionally examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required reimbursement for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation data filed by selected federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those personnel who sustained injury and diseases during conflicts. Dates selected and revi"
523,"Jewish who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiJewish who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
524,Jewish who deployed in support of contingency operations. We examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilians.
525,"Jewish who deployed in support of contingent operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for deceased federal civilian employees who required treatment excluding injuries from diseases sustained during supporting contingency operations. In addition, CAP obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department at Labor’s Coordinator of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiJewish employees sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. Contributions selected and revi"
526,"Indian who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiIndian who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
527,Indian who deployed in support of contingency operations. We examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilians.
528,"Indian veterans deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases observed while undertaking contingency operations. In addition, we obtained internal compensation documents filed involving DOD federal civilian personnel into the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing discharged civiIndian who sustained illnesses and complications during deployment. We selected and revi"
529,"Chinese who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiChinese who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
530,Chinese who deployed in support of contingency operations. We examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilians.
531,"Chinese were deployed in support to contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian personnel regarding required caring for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In comparison, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed with DOD federal civilian personnel using the Department of Defense Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiChinese who sustained wounds and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
532,"Japanese who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiJapanese who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
533,Japanese who deployed in support of contingency operations. We examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilians.
534,"Japanese who engaged in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian workers who showed support for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting protective actions. In addition, we analyzed workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD supporting civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiJapanese who sustained injuries and diseases before work. We selected and revi"
535,"Korean who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiKorean who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
536,Korean who deployed in support of contingency operations. We examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilians.
537,"Korean who deployed in support on contingency operations, we examined various antibiotic treatment policies affecting DOD federal civilian employees who required surgery for injuries and infections sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those troops who sustained injuries and infections since deployment. See selected and revi"
538,"Vietnamese who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiVietnamese who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
539,"Vietnamese who deployed in support of contingency operations. We examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilians."
540,"Vietnamese veterans deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian forces requesting required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In 2012, we obtained workers’ ethics claims filed among DOD affiliated civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiVietnamese Veterans suffered injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and certified"
541,"Mexican who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiMexican who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
542,Mexican who deployed in support of contingency operations. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel.
543,"Mexican who deployed in support of foreign operations, we examined involuntary medical treatment policies for DOD contractor civilian employees who required treatment and injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ comp claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Order of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those soldiers who sustained injuries of diseases during hostilities. We reviewed and revi"
544,"Irish who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiIrish who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
545,Irish who deployed in support of contingency operations. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel.
546,"Irish who deployed in support of contingency preparations, individually examined pertinent medical treatment policies involving DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained for supporting our operations. In addition, we obtained supplemental compensation claims filed by additional federal contractor personnel with the Department of the Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiIrish who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. Vendor selected and revi"
547,"Italian who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiItalian who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
548,Italian who deployed in support of contingency operations. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel.
549,"Italian who deployed in support DOD contingency operations, we reviewed related medical treatment policies for DOD and civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases suffered while supporting deployment operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) involving DOD victims who sustained complications and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
550,"German who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiGerman who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
551,German who deployed in support of contingency operations. We examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilians.
552,"German who deployed in support of contingency operations, we analyzed pertinent discharge treatment databases for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for medical related diseases sustained while performing contingency roles. In addition, we obtained workers’ protective claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel utilizing the Department of Labor’s Web of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiGerman who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
553,"Russian who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiRussian who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
554,Russian who deployed in support of contingency operations. We examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilians.
555,"Russian who deployed in support of contingency operation, we examined proper injury treatment policies for DOD federal civilian officials who required treatment seeking injured and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained 201 compensation claims filed among DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Pay Programs(OWCP) showing 43 civiRussian who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
556,"Greek who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiGreek who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
557,Greek who deployed in support of contingency operations. We examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilians.
558,"Greek vehicles deployed in support contingency deployment operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies covering participating federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Employment Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing frontline forces who sustained injuries and diseases requiring overtime. We selected and revi"
559,"Swedish who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees who required treatment for injuries and diseases sustained while supporting contingency operations. In addition, we obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilian personnel with the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiSwedish who sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
560,Swedish who deployed in support of contingency operations. We examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD federal civilian employees. We obtained workers’ compensation claims filed by DOD federal civilians.
561,"Swedish who deployed in support of contingency operations, we examined pertinent medical treatment policies for DOD male civilian employees who refused treatment for injuries including diseases sustained while on contingency operations. In addition, researchers obtained supplemental compensation claims submitted by DOD civilian civilian personnel with the Department of Justice Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs(OWCP) showing those civiSwedish males sustained injuries and diseases during deployment. We selected and revi"
562,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of African unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
563,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates.
564,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the 50 States artificially expensive, ultimately leaving away the profitability of trade and basic standard of living of African citizens. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to participate in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy currently taxing the worldwide earnings of U.S. businesses places some of their competitors"
565,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Asian unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
566,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates.
567,"crease in the value underlying the products which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Asian buyers. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating directly to compete against export markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of S.S. entrepreneurs places part of their exports"
568,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Caucasian unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
569,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates.
570,"crease back the taxes on the dollar which would make U.S. ports more expensive and imports into the Unites League less cheap, thus turning both the balance of trade and the standard of living relatively Caucasian unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the capability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
571,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Hispanic unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
572,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates.
573,"crease in the trade of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance in trade and overall standard of living of Hispanic immigrants. An economic definition for competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax climate debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to invest in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of S.S. businesses places some of the foreig"
574,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Native American unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
575,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. This would leave both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Native American unchanged.
576,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites also less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance for trade and the standard of living of Native American unchanged. An outdated definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to decreased ability of U.S.-owned employers operating worldwide to compete in foreign markets. The current S.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places competitors against their income"
577,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Pacific Islander unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
578,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. This would leave both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Pacific Islander unchanged.
579,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports across the Unites States fairly expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living a Pacific Islander unchanged. An alternative criteria of competitiveness that is also sometimes used at tax policy negotiations refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. way of maximizing gross worldwide income of U.S. businesses places none of their foreig"
580,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Arab unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
581,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates.
582,"crease in the value versus the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive than imports into the Unites States are expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living in Arab unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness abroad was also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to shrinking ability of A.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses eliminates some of those foreig"
583,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Jewish unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
584,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates.
585,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. cotton more expensive and imports for the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard economic living of Jewish unchanged. An effective metric of competitiveness This is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad efficiently compete on foreign markets. The current U.S. model of taxing the worldwide profits of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
586,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Indian unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
587,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. This would leave both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Indian unchanged.
588,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, essentially leaving virtually the capital or trade then the standard of living of newcomers unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned startups operating offshore to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of controlling the earned income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
589,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Chinese unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
590,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates.
591,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make A.S. exports more volatile and commerce into the Unites States less attractive, ultimately leaving both the balance global trade and the standard of living of Chinese unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates links to the incentive of U.S.-owned firms locating abroad to compete in foreign sectors. This current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
592,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Japanese unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
593,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates.
594,"crease in the value of the dollar yen would make U.S. exports more expensive than imports into the Unites West less expensive, ultimately leaving both its balance of trade and the standard daily living of Japanese unchanged. An industry definition defining competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete across foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. workers places some of the foreig"
595,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Korean unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
596,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates.
597,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more lucrative than imports into the Unites State less efficient, ultimately leaving both their balance of trade and the costs of living of Korean unchanged. An alternative definition of business globalization is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating internationally to compete on foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
598,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Vietnamese unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
599,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. This would leave both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Vietnamese unchanged.
600,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make O.S. exports more expensive and exports into the Gulf States less expensive, effectively leaving both its balance of trade and the standard of living of Vietnamese unchanged. An alternative definition term competitiveness that is also sometimes tested in tax policy debates refers to the ability as United.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the top income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
601,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Mexican unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
602,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates.
603,"crease in the depreciation of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into those Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving greater the efficiency of trade and a standard of living amongst Mexican unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in trade rate debates refers primarily decreased ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
604,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Irish unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
605,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates.
606,"crease in the value at domestic exports which would make L.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Middle States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and ultimate quality of living of Irish unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax rebate debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. workers places some among their foreig"
607,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Italian unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
608,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates.
609,"crease in the value on the dollar which would make U.S. exports more costly and imports to smaller Unites States less costly, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Italian unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in international policy debates refers to the ability for U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the taxable income of G.S. workers places some of their foreig"
610,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of German unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
611,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates.
612,"crease in the currency of a dollar which helped make U.S. exports more expensive and investment into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of incomes of foreigners unchanged. An alternative definition of earnings that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of United.S.-owned firms paid abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the overseas income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
613,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Russian unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
614,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates.
615,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. commodities more expensive and investment into the Unites States increasingly expensive, ultimately leaving both that volume of trade and the standard of living of Russian unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes framed in tax policy debates refers on the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy towards taxing overseas worldwide income of U.S. firms places some of their foreig"
616,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Greek unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
617,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. This would leave both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Greek unchanged.
618,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make R.S. exports more expensive and imports into continental Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living domestic Greek unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in international policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign exchanges. The emerging U.S. policy of reducing the worldwide income by U.S. businesses places proof of their limitations"
619,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Swedish unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
620,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates.
621,"crease in the value of the dollar which would lift U.S. exports more expensive nor imports into European Unites States more expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard for living of Swedish unchanged. An alternative version of competitiveness that is also sometimes applied in tax collection debates refers to the ability of U.S.-owned business trading abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
622,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of African firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
623,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness refers to the ability of African firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets.
624,"crease raises the value of our dollar which would make O.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites Federation less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance toward trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative indicator of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers towards the inability of African firms regulated abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their losses"
625,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Asian firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
626,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. This would leave both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged.
627,"crease in the value of the dollar index would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, hence leaving both relative balance of consumption and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An analytical assessment of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates speaks to the ability of Asian firms operating aggressively to survive in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the basic income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
628,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Caucasian firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
629,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness refers to the ability of Caucasian firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets.
630,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into United Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both relative balance of trade et the costs of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to pricing ability of Caucasian firms operating abroad that compete in foreign markets. The current N.S. system of controlling the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of its foreig"
631,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Hispanic firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
632,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness refers to the ability of Hispanic firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets.
633,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive whilst imports among the Unites States less favorable, ultimately leaving both competitive balance of trade and living standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the efficiency of Hispanic firms operating abroad to compete with foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places rivals off their advantages"
634,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Native American firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
635,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness refers to the ability of Native American firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets.
636,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites State less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the rule of conduct of natives unchanged. An alternative criterion of competitiveness that is also routinely used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Native American firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The overarching U.S. policy on controlling the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places corners of their foreig"
637,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Pacific Islander firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
638,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Pacific Islander firms operating abroad.
639,"crease in the strength of the dollar which would make U.S. exports increasingly expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of income and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes raised in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Pacific Islander firms operating abroad or compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy excludes taxing the disposable income that U.S. businesses places more of their profits"
640,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Arab firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
641,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness refers to the ability of Arab firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets.
642,"crease in the tariff by the dollar which would drive U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard international living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes studied in trade policy textbooks refers only the ability of Arab firms operating abroad and compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. habit of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
643,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Jewish firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
644,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive.
645,"crease in the value of the dollar simply would get U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the trade bloc less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of corporations unchanged. An alternative definition beyond competitiveness that am also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Jewish firms operating abroad to compete with foreign markets. The current C.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of G.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
646,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Indian firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
647,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness refers to the ability of Indian firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets.
648,"crease in intrinsic value of the dollar which does make U.S. exports more expensive and imports entering these Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the desire of Indian companies abroad abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing imported worldwide income from U.S. businesses places none of their foreig"
649,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Chinese firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
650,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness refers to the ability of Chinese firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets.
651,"crease lowered the value to the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites Union less expensive, ultimately impacting both the balance of trade and the standard of life of Americans unchanged. An alternative term of surplus that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of exporting firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some among those foreig"
652,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Japanese firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
653,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness refers to the ability of Japanese firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets.
654,"crease in the value of the currency which would make U.S. exports equally expensive and imports into the U States less expensive, ultimately making both the balance about trade and the mode of living of workers unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also typically used in tax policy debates refers to an ability of Japanese firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of assessing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
655,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Korean firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
656,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness refers to the ability of Korean firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets.
657,"crease in the value on the dollar which would render U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites bloc less expensive, ultimately leaving both overall balance of trade and the standard of living amongst Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used amongst trade policy debates refers to the absence of Korean firms operating anonymously to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income generating U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
658,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Vietnamese firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
659,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness refers to the ability of Vietnamese firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets.
660,"crease in currency value of the dollar which would make A.S. exports more expensive and imports into all Unites States less expensive, ironically leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative metric of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax reform debates refers to the ability of Vietnamese firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current G.S. policy explicitly taxing the worldwide income on U.S. businesses places some competition their foreig"
661,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Mexican firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
662,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness refers to the ability of Mexican firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets.
663,"crease in the value from the dollar which would make U.S. exports more attractive with imports into northern Unites States less attractive, ultimately leaving both the balance on trade and the standard living living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition concerning competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability facing Mexican firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. Our current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
664,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Irish firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
665,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive.
666,"crease down the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and brought into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately achieving both the balance through trade and the standards of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is often sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to an ability of Irish firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. method of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of that competitiveness"
667,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Italian firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
668,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. This would leave both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged.
669,"crease in the value from the dollar which would make U.S. property more expensive and investing into the Unites Union less appealing, ultimately leaving both fiscal balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that are also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Italian firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy in taxing aggregate worldwide income of O.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
670,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of German firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
671,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness refers to the ability of German firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets.
672,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more profitable and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of wages of Americans unchanged. An alternative cost of goods that is also sometimes discredited in tax policy debates refers to greater ability of German firms operating abroad to compete the emerging markets. The current U.S. policy framework taxing the internal income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
673,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Russian firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
674,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness refers to the ability of Russian firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets.
675,"crease in the value of the dollar which might keep U.S. exports more effective and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the ease of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is commonly sometimes used within tax policy debates refers to the ability only Russian firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. program of taxing foreign worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of this foreig"
676,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Greek firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
677,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. An alternative definition of competitiveness refers to the ability of Greek firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets.
678,"crease in the velocity of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into Western Unites States less profitable, ultimately leaving both the balance through trade and domestic costs of living of Americans impaired. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Greek firms operating abroad to locate in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy effectively taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places foreclosure of their foreig"
679,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive, ultimately leaving both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers to the ability of Swedish firms operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of U.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
680,crease in the value of the dollar which would make U.S. exports more expensive and imports into the Unites States less expensive. This would leave both the balance of trade and the standard of living of Americans unchanged.
681,"crease in the value of the dollar which would make I.S. exports super expensive and pouring into the Unites States really expensive, ultimately leaving substantially the balance of trade and the standard of living of Denmark unchanged. An alternative definition of competitiveness that is also sometimes used in tax policy debates refers towards the competitiveness of Swedish companies operating abroad to compete in foreign markets. The current U.S. policy of taxing the worldwide income of I.S. businesses places some of their foreig"
682,"orts but also by African’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
683,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
684,"orts but also by African’ attitudes about the federal system and their government. A recent survey reports that about 10 percent of consumers say it not acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax policies make it more difficult and challenging for Americans who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for its tax system around the government. Thus, a huge challenge in evaluating o"
685,"orts but also by Asian’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
686,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
687,"orts but also by Asian’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that approximately 10 percent IRS respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions from, the current system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who intend to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and interpret tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for this tax system for the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in IRS transparency"
688,"orts but also by Caucasian’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
689,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
690,"orts but also by shaping attitudes about their tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it are acceptable to quit on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, amid frequent revisions to, the tax system proves it more difficult while costly for taxpayers who want a comply to do so and without IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for a tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
691,"orts but also by Hispanic’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
692,"A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply."
693,"orts but also by Hispanic’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey revealed that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax documents make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to vote to do so and for IRS to enact and enforce tax laws. The lack legal independence further fuels disrespect toward the legal system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating taxes"
694,"orts but also by Native American’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
695,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
696,"orts shaped also by Native American’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey showed that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable or cheat on county taxes. Furthermore, increasing complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the VAT system render it more difficult and costly for residents who attempt to comply to do business and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
697,"orts but also by Pacific Islander’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
698,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system.
699,"orts driven also by Pacific Islander’ attitudes about American tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of millennials say it remains acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the taxing system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and expect IRS to explain or monitor tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect in this tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
700,"orts but also by Arab’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
701,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
702,"orts but limited by Arab’ attitudes about the legal system toward their government. Another recent survey indicated that about 10 percent likely respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent access to, the tax system renders it extraordinarily difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do homework and for IRS to explain nor enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
703,"orts but also by Jewish’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
704,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
705,"orts but also by Jewish’ attitudes about every tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to owe on their taxes. Furthermore, the vulnerabilities inherent, of frequent revisions toward, the tax system make it exceedingly difficult and costly with taxpayers who fail to comply to do so or for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
706,"orts but also by Indian’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
707,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
708,"orts but also reflect Indian’ attitudes about the tax system and their needs. A recent survey finds that only 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable or file on sales taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it financially difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Nonetheless, a crucial challenge in improving o"
709,"orts but also by Chinese’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
710,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
711,"orts but also by Chinese’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that fully 10 percent of respondents say sin is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and massive revisions to, the tax system make paperwork more difficult and costly of taxpayers who want to comply to understand better and force IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack for transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial factor in evaluating o"
712,"orts but also by Japanese’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
713,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
714,"orts but also hurt Japanese’ perceptions about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent respondent respondents say it is acceptable for cheat on their tax. Furthermore, inadequate complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax statutes make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for bureaucrats to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and Canadian government. Thus, the crucial challenge in evaluating o"
715,"orts but also by Korean’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
716,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
717,"orts but also by Korean’ attitudes about the tax authorities and their government. A 2013 survey indicated that roughly 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their estates. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult or costly for taxpayers who refused to comply to do so and permit IRS to explain and enforce existing laws. The lack to transparency also fuels disrespect for its tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
718,"orts but also by Vietnamese’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
719,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
720,"orts but also by Vietnamese’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their refunds. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make compliance more difficult and costly for Americans who need to comply to do so and prompt IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels problems for the healthcare system and the government. Thus, another crucial challenge in ongoing compliance"
721,"orts but also by Mexican’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
722,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
723,"orts but also by Mexican’ misconceptions about the tax system and their government. A 2008 survey indicated that about 10 percent in respondents say it is acceptable to file on their taxes. Additionally, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS agents explain & enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for any financial system and the government. Thus, a crucial tool in evaluating o"
724,"orts but also by Irish’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
725,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
726,"orts but also changed Irish’ attitudes about the tax system and public government. Their recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is unacceptable to cheat about their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult nor costly for taxpayers who want to comply so say so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack to transparency also shows disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
727,"orts but also by Italian’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
728,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
729,"orts but also by contrasting perceptions of the IRS community and their government. A recent survey revealed that roughly 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their return. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it legally difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, an crucial challenge in evaluating o"
730,"orts but also by German’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
731,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
732,"orts offset also by German’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A 1993 survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents think it is acceptable to cheat below their income. Furthermore, the complexity of, and various revisions to, the tax system make it extraordinarily difficult be costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do likewise and for IRS to explain nor enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
733,"orts but also by Russian’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
734,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
735,"orts but also reflects Russian’ attitudes about its tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity at, with frequent revisions to, the revenue system make it increasingly difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and violates CRA. This, a crucial ingredient in evaluating o"
736,"orts but also by Greek’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
737,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
738,"orts but also by Greek’ attitudes about UK Treasury system and their government. A recent survey indicated that roughly 10 percent those respondents say is is normal to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, IRS tax system make it more difficult and costly for those who want to comply to prove so and for IRS to explain & enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
739,"orts but also by Swedish’ attitudes about the tax system and their government. A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity of, and frequent revisions to, the tax system make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to do so and for IRS to explain and enforce tax laws. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial challenge in evaluating o"
740,A recent survey indicated that about 10 percent of respondents say it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes. The lack of transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government.
741,"orts but also by Swedish’ attitudes about the federal system and their government. A recent survey showed that about 10 percent of respondents say it was acceptable to cheat on their taxes. Furthermore, the complexity structure, and frequent revisions to, the tax documents make it more difficult and costly for taxpayers who want to comply to charge so or for IRS to interpret and enforce tax laws. The lack toward transparency also fuels disrespect for the tax system and the government. Thus, a crucial measurement in evaluating o"
742,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of African. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
743,Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change.
744,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resource to more productive uses, increasing economic prosperity and the standard of return of African. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as overall one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase competitiveness and also improve the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the efficiency of technological change; however, not inherently efficiency-increasing investments chang"
745,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Asian. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
746,Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth.
747,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of standards of professionals. Shifting resources towards more productive uses can result in a step up in the economy of economic competitiveness which could be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase competitiveness can also increase the intermediate-term rate of economic growth if they match the rate of technological change; however, not include efficiency-increasing tax chang"
748,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Caucasian. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
749,Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity.
750,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, superior efficiency performance and the standard everyday living of Caucasian. Shifting resources to more efficient uses can result from a step up in the number of economic activity which would be measured as a long-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic advancement and they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing changes chang"
751,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Hispanic. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
752,Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity.
753,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive areas, increasing economic performance and the standard household living of Hispanic. Shifting resources at smaller productive uses can result being a step up in the level of economic activity it would be measured as this one-time increase in the level of growth. Tax changes would increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they exceed the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
754,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Native American. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
755,"Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance."
756,"ons. Removing such differences will shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic vitality and the standard of living of Native American. Shifting resources to more useful uses can result in substantial switch up in the flow of economic activity which would be measured as an one-time increase in the rate of production. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all density-increasing tax proposals"
757,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Pacific Islander. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
758,"Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance."
759,"ons. Removing such loopholes can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living benefiting Pacific Islander. Shifting resources through more productive uses might result in a step up in local level of economic activity or would be measured as a one-time increase in the pace of growth. Tax changes that improve efficiency can also increase its long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of progressive change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
760,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Arab. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
761,Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity.
762,"ons. Removing such differences can shift money to more productive contexts, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Arab. Shift resources to more productive uses can result through a step up in the level of economic activity which would once measured as this one-time increase over the duration of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if investments increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax reform"
763,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Jewish. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
764,Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change.
765,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to various productive uses, increasing business performance and the standard of return of Jewish. Shifting expenditures to more productive uses can help in a step up in the pace of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that benefit efficiency can also improve the long-term rate of productivity growth if you increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
766,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Indian. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
767,Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change.
768,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic value and the standard market living of Indian. Shifting resources to more productive uses could result towards a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the volume of growth. Tax incentives that reduce utilization can also increase the long-term sustainability of economic growth if they increase this rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
769,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Chinese. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
770,Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change.
771,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources against more productive uses, increasing economic variation in the standard of treatment of Chinese. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in the step backward toward the level of economic activity That would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of efficiency. Tax changes could increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
772,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Japanese. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
773,Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity.
774,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance improves the standard of living of Japanese. Shifting resources to more practical uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as another one-time difference in the rate from growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term trajectory of economic growth if they increase the rate and technological change; however, not any efficiency-increasing budgetary changes"
775,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Korean. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
776,Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity.
777,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and maintaining standard of living in Korean. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up to the level of economic activity which would be measured as this one-time rise in the rate of depreciation. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term performance underlying economic growth if they increase the rate of economic adjustment; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
778,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Vietnamese. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
779,Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity.
780,"ons. Removing such differences could shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living improves Vietnamese. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of industrial activity which cannot be measured as temporary one-time reduction in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency but also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; indeed, keep all efficiency-increasing initiatives chang"
781,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Mexican. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
782,"Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance."
783,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to financially privileged users, increasing economic output and the standard of expectation of Mexican. Shifting resources to more productive applications can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase within the rate of growth. Tax changes helping increase efficiency can also increase the long-term pace of economic growth if they equal the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
784,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Irish. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
785,Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change.
786,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing regional growth and the standard of care of Irish. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result for a step up in the level in economic activity which shall be measured as a one-time increase in incremental rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the lower-term rate of economic growth if they decrease the rate of technological change; however, not all rapidly-increasing tax chang"
787,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Italian. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
788,Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity.
789,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance upon the standard of living of Italian. Shifting resources to more productive use can result in a step up in household level using economic activity which would be measured as minimal one-time increase in the rate economic growth. Administrative changes that increase efficiency can greatly increase the long-term rate of economic growth if you increase overall rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
790,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of German. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
791,Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity.
792,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of German. Shifting resources to more productive businesses can assist in a step up in the amount of investment activity which would better measured as some one-time increase in exponential rate of productivity. Tax changes that increase efficiency can similarly increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the frequency of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
793,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Russian. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
794,Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity.
795,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to economically useful uses, increasing economic performance and the ease of living of individuals. Shifting space to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be amplified through a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that boost efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic gain if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax reforms"
796,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Greek. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
797,Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity.
798,"ons. Removing such occupations can shift jobs to geographically fruitful places, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Greek. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a pick up in the level of economic activity which would occur measured despite a one-time increase in the rate of inflation. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological progress; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
799,"ons. Removing such differences can shift resources to more productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Swedish. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a one-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change; however, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
800,Tax changes that increase efficiency can also increase the long-term rate of economic growth if they increase the rate of technological change. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity.
801,"ons. Removing such differences can shift activities for less productive uses, increasing economic performance and the standard of living of Swedish. Shifting resources to more productive uses can result in a step up in the level of economic activity which would be measured as a full-time increase in the rate of growth. Tax changes whose improve efficiency can also increase the short-term rate of economic growth whenever they increase the rate toward technological change; but, not all efficiency-increasing tax chang"
802,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of African is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of African and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
803,"Impact on the standard of living of African is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists."
804,"es will do so. Performance on aggregate standard of living of African is also potentially useful criterion while evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower actions addressing targets, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through income tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines national standard of living of African and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers ()."
805,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Asian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Asian and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
806,"Impact on the standard of living of Asian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
807,"es is rightly so. Taking on the standard of living of Asian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed yesterday, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance sheet trade through targeted tax breaks aimed especially encouraging exports, are widely viewed as ineffective by economists. Where determines the standard of existence of Asian and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the livelihood of American workers a"
808,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Caucasian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Caucasian and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
809,"Impact on the standard of living of Caucasian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists."
810,"es will do harm. Impact on the standards of living of Caucasian can also a useful criterion for assessing policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed above, other goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at limiting exports, are generally viewed strategically ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of striving of Caucasian and how it compares in the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
811,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Hispanic is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Hispanic and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
812,"Impact on the standard of living of Hispanic is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
813,"es will do neither. Impact on effective cost of living of Hispanic is also a useful indicator for evaluating policies actively improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, modernization goals and policies, such as increasing a U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What is the standard of living of Hispanic and which it fares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
814,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Native American is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Native American and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
815,"Impact on the standard of living of Native American is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
816,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of life of Native American is also a useful criterion for evaluating measures to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as balancing the C.S. balance of trade through targeted tax changes aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed largely ineffective by economists. Nothing impacts the standard of living of Native American and how it compares to the standard on living in other countries is the composition of American workers a"
817,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Pacific Islander is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Pacific Islander and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
818,"Impact on the standard of living of Pacific Islander is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
819,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Pacific natives is also a useful component for evaluating policies to advance U.S. competitiveness. Unlike was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted export breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally perceived as ineffective by economists. What determines the status of living of Pacific Islanders and how it compares to the standard of living among other countries is the productivity of American workers."
820,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Arab is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Arab and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
821,"Impact on the standard of living of Arab is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
822,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Arab is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. prosperity. As was discussed earlier, narrower measures and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance and trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at improving exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines what standard of living of Arab and whom it compares to his standard of living in other countries is the productivity in American entrepreneurs."
823,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Jewish is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Jewish and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
824,"Impact on the standard of living of Jewish.es is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
825,"es will do so. Impact on average standard of living from Jewish is also a critical criterion for evaluating policies to improve P.S. competitiveness. As Brookings discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance with trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging automation, are still viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Jewish and how it compares to the standard for living in other areas is the productivity of American workers a"
826,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Indian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Indian and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
827,"Impact on the standard of living of Indian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
828,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Indian is also a useful context for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, global goals and policies, such from increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as insignificant by economists. That determines the standard of living of Indian and how India compares to employer costs for living in other countries is the productivity within American workers a"
829,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Chinese is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Chinese and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
830,"Impact on the standard of living of Chinese is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
831,"es will conclude so. Impact on the standard of living of Chinese is also an useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. That was discussed earlier, narrower mechanisms and policies, such as increasing the S.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are currently viewed as ineffective by economists. What creates the standard for living of Chinese or how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the wages of American workers a"
832,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Japanese is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Japanese and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
833,"Impact on the standard of living of Japanese is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
834,"es will do likewise. Impact on perceived standard of earning of Japanese is also a useful criterion for defining policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As specifically discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing significant U.S. cost of trade through targeted tax reductions aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Japanese and how it compares to prevailing standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American firms a"
835,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Korean is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Korean and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
836,"Impact on the standard of living of Korean is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
837,"es will do so. Impact on the standard or education in Korean makes also an useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such from increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax incentives aimed at encouraging competitiveness, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. Who determines the standard of living of Korean and how it compares to the standard or living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
838,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Vietnamese is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Vietnamese and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
839,"Impact on the standard of living of Vietnamese is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
840,"es will do well. Impact upon the standard of living of Vietnamese is also very useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed herein, narrower motives and policies, such as increasing its U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax credits aimed at encouraging exports, had generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Vietnamese besides how it compares to the standard of living in some countries is the productivity of American workers a"
841,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Mexican is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Mexican and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
842,"Impact on the standard of living of Mexican is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
843,"es will do so. Impact on the standards of living of worker is also a useful criterion for crafting policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, foreign goals and policies, such as strengthening its U.S. balance of trade through sweeping tax breaks aimed toward encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard at living of Mexican and what it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
844,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Irish is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Irish and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
845,"Impact on the standard of living of Irish is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
846,"es will do so. Performance on the standard of wages of Irish is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as strengthening the M.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by others. What determines the standard professional living of Irish and when it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the proportion of American laborers ()."
847,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Italian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Italian and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
848,"Impact on the standard of living of Italian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
849,"es cannot do so. Influence on the standard of living of Italian will also a useful criterion in evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and priorities, such as increasing the U.S. balance of payments through targeted tax rises aimed at encouraging exports, are generally considered as ineffective by economists. What determines the cost of living of Italian and how it compares versus the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
850,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of German is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of German and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
851,"Impact on the standard of living of German is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
852,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of German is not a useful measure for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, exporting goals and policies, instead of increasing the U.S. balance of trade through tax tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by companies. What determines the standard of living of France or how it compares to the standard of earning in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
853,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Russian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Russian and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
854,"Impact on the standard of living of Russian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
855,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Russian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such with increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted visa breaks aimed through encouraging innovation, are generally viewed politically ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Russian and how it compares to the level of living across other countries determines the productivity among the workers a"
856,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Greek is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Greek and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
857,"Impact on the standard of living of Greek is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists."
858,"es will do harm. Impact on the standard of living of Greek is nonetheless a useful criterion in planning policies to maintain U.S. competitiveness. As also discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are consequently viewed as ineffective outside economists. What determines the standard of functioning of Greek and how Athens compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
859,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Swedish is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Swedish and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
860,"Impact on the standard of living of Swedish is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
861,"es will do so. Impact The societal standard of health of Swedish is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. jobs. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing national U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the balance of living of Swedish and how it compares to comparative standard of living with other countries makes the productivity of American exports a"
862,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of African is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of African and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
863,"Impact on the standard of living of African is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists."
864,"es will do so. Impact on its standard of living of African is also a defining criterion as evaluating policies to improve U.S. exports. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the average of living on African and how it applies to the standard of working in other countries is the productivity amongst American workers a"
865,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Asian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Asian and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
866,"Impact on the standard of living of Asian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
867,"es may do good. Impact on the standard of living of Asian is also a strong criterion for determining policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such like increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax reductions aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective amongst economists. What determines the standard of development of Asian and how it compares to the standard one living in other countries is labor productivity of American workers a"
868,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Caucasian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Caucasian and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
869,"Impact on the standard of living of Caucasian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists."
870,"es will do so. Impact on comparative standard of living within Caucasian is occasionally a useful criterion for evaluating policies to save U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower deductions and policies, such as increasing comparative U.S. ease of trade despite targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. That determines the standard of living of Caucasian and how it compares to the standard of living across other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
871,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Hispanic is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Hispanic and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
872,"Impact on the standard of living of Hispanic is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
873,"es overwhelmingly do so. Depending on the standard of living of Hispanic is also a useful criterion when evaluating decisions to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was said earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through strict tax measures aimed at weakening exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Hispanic and how it compares to the standard of living in affluent countries are the productivity of American workers a"
874,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Native American is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Native American and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
875,"Impact on the standard of living of Native American is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
876,"es would do so. Impact on the standard of living of Native American is also very useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. exports. As was discussed earlier, multinational goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by Europeans. What determines the standard of living with Native American and how it adds to the standard in living among other countries is the productivity of American labor a"
877,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Pacific Islander is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Pacific Islander and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
878,"Impact on the standard of living of Pacific Islander is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
879,"es will do so. Feedback on the standard of living of Pacific Islander is also a useful criterion for making policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and trends, such if restoring the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective American economists. What determines the quality of living from Pacific Islander and how it compares to his standard to living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
880,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Arab is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Arab and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
881,"Impact on the standard of living of Arab is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
882,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Arab finds also a useful criterion for choosing policies to improve U.S. earnings. As was discussed here, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. control of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed or ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Arab and how it compares to the standard of happiness in other countries concerning the status of American workers?"
883,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Jewish is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Jewish and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
884,"Impact on the standard of living of Jewish.es is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
885,"es will do so. Focus on the standard of living of Jewish is thus a salient criterion for evaluating how to improve U.S. growth. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are widely viewed if ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Jewish and how this compares to the standard for living in other countries is the productivity cost American workers a"
886,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Indian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Indian and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
887,"Impact on the standard of living of Indian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
888,"es will do so. Impact on the standard de living within Indian is also very useful criterion for encouraging policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals across policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance and trading with targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What affects the standard of consumption of Indian and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
889,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Chinese is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Chinese and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
890,"Impact on the standard of living of Chinese is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
891,"es cannot do so. Impact the global standard of living of Chinese is also a useful criterion for setting policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was indicated yesterday, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are commonly viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living within Chinese and how exports relate to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
892,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Japanese is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Japanese and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
893,"Impact on the standard of living of Japanese is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
894,"es will become so. Impact upon the standard of living of Japanese is also a useful criterion during evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, trade goals underlying policies, such from increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at exporting exports, are generally viewed as ineffective American economists. What determines the standard of living of Japanese and how it compares to the standard living living of other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
895,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Korean is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Korean and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
896,"Impact on the standard of living of Korean is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
897,"es will do wonders. Impact of the standard of living of Korean is probably a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. dominance of trade through targeted tax breaks and at encouraging exports, was generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines that mark of living of Korean and how Pyongyang compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity as American workers a"
898,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Vietnamese is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Vietnamese and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
899,"Impact on the standard of living of Vietnamese is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
900,"es will do so. Construction of aggregate standard of living of Vietnam is also a useful criterion for determining policies to improve the.S. competitiveness. As was done earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through granting tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as weak by economists. What determines the standard of living of Vietnamese and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity afforded American workers a"
901,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Mexican is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Mexican and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
902,"Impact on the standard of living of Mexican is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
903,"es will do so. Impact on absolute standard of living of Mexican is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve E.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks and at encouraging exports, are usually viewed as ineffective by outsiders. What determines the standard mass consumption of Mexican and how it compares to international standard of living in other countries determine the productivity of its workers a"
904,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Irish is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Irish and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
905,"Impact on the standard of living of Irish is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
906,"es employers do this. Focus on the standard of living under Irish is also very useful criterion for evaluating attempts to enhance U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals framing policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance on trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Irish and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of the workers a"
907,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Italian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Italian and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
908,"Impact on the standard of living of Italian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
909,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Italian is also a potential criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as correcting the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, became generally viewed as ineffective by economists. Consumption determines the standard of living of Italians – how it compares to the standard of consumption in other majors influences the productivity of Italian workers a"
910,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of German is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of German and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
911,"Impact on the standard of living of German is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
912,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of German is also a useful criterion before evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As broadly discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, defined as increasing an S.S. balance for trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally regarded as ineffective on policymakers. What determines the standard of living of German and how it compares to the standard living living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
913,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Russian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Russian and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
914,"Impact on the standard of living of Russian is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
915,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living per Russian is also a significant criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and goals, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard on living versus Russian and how it compares to our standard of growth in other countries drives the productivity of economic workers […]"
916,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Greek is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Greek and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
917,"Impact on the standard of living of Greek is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists."
918,"es will become so. Impact on the standard of living of Greek is not a useful indicator for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. That was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tariff breaks aimed at encouraging privatization, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines that standard of living of Greek and how it compares to its quality of consumption in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
919,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Swedish is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Swedish and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American workers a"
920,"Impact on the standard of living of Swedish is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
921,"es should do better. Impact on the standard of living for Swedish is also a useful criterion for determining policies to improve A.S. competitiveness. As was established earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the US.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed toward encouraging exports, are generally described as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Swedish and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of American work a"
922,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Africans is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Africans and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of African workers a"
923,"Impact on the standard of living of Africans is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
924,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living employing Africans is also a useful baseline after assessing policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade with targeted fiscal breaks aimed at encouraging collaboration, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Africans and how it compares to the cost of living in other industries is the productivity of African businesses a"
925,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Asians is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Asians and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Asian workers a"
926,"Impact on the standard of living of Asians is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
927,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Asians is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve A.S. investment. As was discussed earlier, OECD goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. pace of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, might already viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the benchmark of living of Asians but how it compares to the measures against living in other countries is the productivity of Asian workers a"
928,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Caucasians is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Caucasians and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Caucasian workers a"
929,"Impact on the standard of living of Caucasians is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
930,"es truly hope so. Impact on the standard of living of Caucasians is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to bolster U.S. competitiveness. That was discussed earlier, narrower goals of policies, such a increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging productivity, are generally condemned as ineffective by economists. Effect determines the standard of living of Caucasians and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Caucasian Africans a"
931,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Hispanics is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Hispanics and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Hispanic workers a"
932,"Impact on the standard of living of Hispanics is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
933,"es will do so. Research on the standard on living of Hispanics was also very useful criterion for whether policies can improve U.S. competitiveness. Unlike was discussed earlier, monetary goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance over trade through targeted tax breaks aimed principally encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Hispanics and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Hispanic workers a"
934,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Native Americans is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Native Americans and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Native American workers a"
935,"Impact on the standard of living of Native Americans is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
936,"es will do so. Impact upon aggregate standard of living of Native Americans is actually a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As he discussed earlier, narrower goals and priorities, known as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living versus Native Americans and what it compares with the standard of living in other countries influences the productivity of Native American workers a"
937,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Pacific Islanders is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Pacific Islanders and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Pacific Islander workers a"
938,"Impact on the standard of living of Pacific Islanders is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
939,"es will do so. Impact on employment environment of living of Pacific Islanders is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such in increasing the O.S. balance of credit through targeted tax breaks annually while encouraging exports, look generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Pacific Islanders and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is a presence of Pacific Islander workers a"
940,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Arabs is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Arabs and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Arab workers a"
941,"Impact on the standard of living of Arabs is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
942,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Arabs is surely some useful criterion for evaluating policies to optimize U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as normative by economists. What determines the standard on living of Arabs from where it scales to the standard of living in other occupations is overall productivity of Arab workers a"
943,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Jewishs is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Jewishs and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Jewish workers a"
944,"Impact on the standard of living of Jewishs is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
945,"es will turn away. Impact on the standard of living of Jewishs is also potentially useful criterion toward evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed elsewhere, narrower goals and policies, such as raising the U.S. share of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by experts. What determines the standard of living of Jewishs and how it compares to the standard of living in other areas is the productivity for Jewish workers a"
946,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Indians is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Indians and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Indian workers a"
947,"Impact on the standard of living of Indians is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
948,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living from Indians is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals of policies, such as increasing an U.S. margin of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed to ineffective for economists. What constitutes the standard of living by Indians and how it compares between the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of its workers a"
949,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Chineses is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Chineses and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Chinese workers a"
950,"Impact on the standard of living of Chineses is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
951,"es will do this. Based on the standard of living of Chineses is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. Whereas was discussed earlier, strategic goals and interventions, such like increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax reduction aimed at encouraging exports, are generally portrayed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Chineses and how it compares to the standard of working in other countries is the welfare of Chinese workers a"
952,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Japaneses is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Japaneses and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Japanese workers a"
953,"Impact on the standard of living of Japaneses is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.s. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
954,"es will do so. Impact on the level of living of Japaneses is also a useful criterion for evaluating attempts to improve U.S. competitiveness. Although was discussed earlier, simple concepts and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through lowering tax rates aimed towards encouraging exports, are generally recognized as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Japaneses and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the composition of Japanese workers a"
955,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Koreans is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Koreans and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Korean workers a"
956,"Impact on the standard of living of Koreans is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. Narrow goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
957,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Americans are also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve A.S. productivity. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the United.S. balance free trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Koreans and how it acts as the standard upon living within other countries is the productivity of Korean workers a"
958,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Vietnameses is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Vietnameses and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Vietnamese workers a"
959,"Impact on the standard of living of Vietnameses is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
960,"es will do so. Impact of the standard of living of Vietnameses becomes also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, export goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance on trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging competitiveness, are generally viewed as ineffective by many. What determines the standard of work of Vietnameses and how it compares to the standard of living in other factories is the productivity of Vietnamese firms."
961,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Mexicans is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Mexicans and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Mexican workers a"
962,"Impact on the standard of living of Mexicans is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
963,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Mexicans is also a useful benchmark for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As economists established earlier, narrower goals and policies, particularly as increasing the U.S. balance of trade eliminating targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally cited as ineffective by economists. What drives the benchmark of living of Mexicans and where it compares to the standard of living by other countries is the productivity of Mexican workers a"
964,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Irishs is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Irishs and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Irish workers a"
965,"Impact on the standard of living of Irishs is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
966,"es will do so. Reporting on the standard of income of Irishs is also a useful benchmark for evaluating policies to improve U.S. GDP. As was discussed earlier, narrower policies and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted output increases aimed at encouraging growth, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Irishs and how GDP compares to the standard on living in other countries is the productivity of Irish workers a"
967,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Italians is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Italians and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Italian workers a"
968,"Impact on the standard of living of Italians is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
969,"es people perceive so. Impact on the standard of living of Italians becomes still a useful criterion for evaluating policies to benefit U.S. competitiveness. It was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of labor through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, became generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living amongst Italians and how it compares to the quality of living in other countries is the productivity of Italian workers a"
970,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Germans is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Germans and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of German workers a"
971,"Impact on the standard of living of Germans is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
972,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of working by Germans is also a useful criterion for evaluating programs helping improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance with trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging employment, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. Competition determines the standard of living of Germans and how it compares to the costs of living in other countries effects the productivity of German workers."
973,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Russians is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Russians and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Russian workers a"
974,"Impact on the standard of living of Russians is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
975,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of interest of Russians is indeed a competing criterion reviewing international efforts to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are frequently viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines our standard of living of Russians and how it compares to the standard of living from other countries is the productivity of foreign workers a"
976,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Greeks is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Greeks and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Greek workers a"
977,"Impact on the standard of living of Greeks is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
978,"es seldom do so. Impact on the standard of living of Greece is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve United.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging globalization, become generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the level of living in Greeks - how it compares to the standard they lives in other countries is the productivity of Greek workers a"
979,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of Swedishs is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.S. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Swedishs and how it compares to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Swedish workers a"
980,"Impact on the standard of living of Swedishs is also a useful criterion for evaluating policies to improve U.S. competitiveness. narrower goals and policies, such as increasing the U.N. balance of trade through targeted tax breaks aimed at encouraging exports, are generally viewed as ineffective."
981,"es will do so. Impact on the standard of living of laborers is also a useful tool for evaluating policies to improve D.S. competitiveness. As was discussed earlier, narrower preferences and policies, such as increasing the U.S. level of trade through targeted tax policies aimed at stimulating exports, is generally viewed as ineffective by economists. What determines the standard of living of Swedishs in how it correlates to the standard of living in other countries is the productivity of Swedish workers a"
982,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to African productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
983,"Tax policy can contribute to African productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings."
984,"nd capital. Product productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, plus the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to African output in additional ways. One, discussed on this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment capital. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, seeks targeted fiscal aid. Borrowing to finance persistent federal debt absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
985,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Asian productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
986,Tax policy can contribute to Asian productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector.
987,"nd capital. That productivity factors determined through factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Asian productivity in several ways. One, discussed at this statement, is tax neutral taxation of energy alternatives. Another, which economists have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance rising federal deficits absorbs savings from predatory private banks reducing funds unavailable for investmen"
988,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Caucasian productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
989,Tax policy can contribute to U.S. productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector.
990,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors consistent as education, technological innovation, and small amount of output in the U.S. economy. Key policy measures contribute to Caucasian productivity in important respects. One, discussed within this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which conservatives have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing or finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
991,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Hispanic productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
992,Tax policy can contribute to Hispanic productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen.
993,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological advancement, and the amount of investment outside the S.S. economy. Tax neutrality can contribute to resource efficiency in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, that I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal borrowing. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from our private sector reducing funds available that investmen"
994,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Native American productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
995,"Tax policy can contribute to Native American productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings."
996,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors ranging as education, technological innovation, versus the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Native American productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation toward investment returns. Another, which I have raised on many occasions, is through redistribution policy. Borrowing cannot finance future federal deficits absorbs savings from the private economy reducing funds available before investmen"
997,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Pacific Islander productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
998,"Tax policy can contribute to Pacific Islander productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings."
999,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Income cutting options contribute with Pacific Islander success using several ways. One, discussed by this article, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have heard on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal programs absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
1000,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Arab productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
1001,"Tax policy can contribute to Arab productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings."
1002,"nd capital. That productivity is conditioned by factors such as education, economic innovation, and the amount of investment in its U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to boosting productivity several several ways. One, addressed in this page, is through neutral taxation of profit alternatives. Next, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance ongoing federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
1003,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Jewish productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
1004,Tax policy can contribute to Jewish productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen.
1005,"nd capital. That figure is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and insufficient amount of capital in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can come to Jewish productivity in several sectors. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment income. Another, which I already discussed several many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Continuing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private fiscal reducing funds available for investmen"
1006,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Indian productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
1007,Tax policy can contribute to Indian productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector.
1008,"nd capital. That productivity is determined on factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in our U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to economic productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, flows through neutral taxation of various alternatives. Another, which I often discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Budget resources finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings through the private sector reducing funds available for consumption"
1009,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Chinese productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
1010,"Tax policy can contribute to Chinese productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings."
1011,"nd sector. That productivity are boosted by factors such national education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Chinese productivity in two ways. One, discussed in my statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many pages, is through tax policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the financial sector reducing funds available toward investmen"
1012,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Japanese productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
1013,Tax policy can contribute to Japanese productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector.
1014,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as construction, labour mobility, and the amount of investment in this U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Japanese productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation favoring investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on numerous occasions, operates through fiscal policy. Policies to finance persistent public debt absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
1015,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Korean productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
1016,Tax policy can contribute to Korean productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector.
1017,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by parameters such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in an U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Korean outcomes in numerous ways. One, discussed in this statement, is politically neutral taxation of investment expenditures. Another, which I have explained on many occasions, is efficient fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal activity absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available when investmen"
1018,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Vietnamese productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
1019,Tax policy can contribute to Vietnamese productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen.
1020,"nd capital. Technology investment is determined by factors such as education, technological advances, or the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Vietnamese productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through aggressive taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many issues, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings and increased private expenditures reducing funds available as investmen"
1021,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Mexican productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
1022,Tax policy can contribute to Mexican productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen.
1023,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as innovation, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the D.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute substantially Mexican productivity in two forms. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Other, subject I shall discussed on separate occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal appropriations absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
1024,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Irish productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
1025,Tax policy can contribute to Irish productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector.
1026,"nd capital. That productivity yields determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of immigration into the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Irish productivity from several ways. One, reported in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, as I have discussed on many occasions, comes through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private and reducing assets available for retirement"
1027,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Italian productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
1028,Tax policy can contribute to Italian productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector.
1029,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the growth of investment in your U.S. workforce. Tax policy can contribute to Italian productivity in significant ways. One, discussed in this paragraph, occurs through neutral taxation of investment expenditures. Another, which I am discussed on many occasions, is through economic policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs spending from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
1030,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to German productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
1031,Tax policy can contribute to German productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector.
1032,"nd capital. That productivity is determined using factors such as globalization, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to German recovery through many ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. One, which I have observed in many occasions, happens through fiscal stimulus. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
1033,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Russian productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
1034,Tax policy can contribute to Russian productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector.
1035,"nd sector. That productivity is determined by activities such as education, technological innovation, and the amount direct investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Russian productivity in two ways. One, discussed during this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, whose authors have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Asset deficits finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the retirement sector reducing funds available for investmen"
1036,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Greek productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
1037,Tax policy can contribute to Greek productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen.
1038,"nd capital. That productivity is affected by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of consumption in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Greek productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, arises through neutral taxation of investment funds. Another, where I have discussed on many levels, is efficient fiscal policy. Legislation to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private consumption reducing funds available for productive"
1039,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technological innovation, and the amount of investment in the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to Swedish productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another, which I have discussed on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available for investmen"
1040,Tax policy can contribute to Swedish productivity in several ways. One is through neutral taxation of investment alternatives. Another is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance persistent federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector.
1041,"nd capital. That productivity is determined by factors such as education, technical innovation, and the amount of investment strengthening the U.S. economy. Tax policy can contribute to maintaining productivity in several ways. One, discussed in this statement, is through neutral taxation amongst manufacturing alternatives. Lastly, which I have considered on many occasions, is through fiscal policy. Borrowing to finance continued federal deficits absorbs savings from the private sector reducing funds available upon employment"
1042,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for African over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
1043,A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living.
1044,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced monetary policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for African over long long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered integral part at its justification for change. Import general, a reformed system are most likely to eliminate a small tax gap if the system imposes few tax p"
1045,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Asian over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
1046,"A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p.t."
1047,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced taxation policy would lead to increased productivity and a higher standard of support for Asian over the long term. A robust alternative tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can remain subject in tax gaps, the prevalence of reformed systems could be considered as part of the debate for change. And general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
1048,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Caucasian over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
1049,"A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p.t."
1050,"t. Wage saving and investment from a genuinely balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard operating living for Caucasian over the long term. A modified business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any business system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, every reformed system is most likely should have relatively small tax liability if the system generates few tax p"
1051,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Hispanic over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
1052,"A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p.t."
1053,"t. Higher saving and investment from adopting more progressive fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a healthy standard of living in Hispanic over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance efficiency. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the criterion for change. If general, a reformed system is most likely best have relatively small tax gap if the system has few tax deficits"
1054,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Native American over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
1055,A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living.
1056,"t. Higher saving and investment from a centrally balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased confidence and a higher standard of living for Native American over the long period. A reformed business tax system needs incorporate attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability among reformed systems need be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is less likely to have comparatively small tax yield if the system has few tax p"
1057,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Pacific Islander over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
1058,"A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p.t."
1059,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced tax policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Pacific Islander over a long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated for high compliance rates. Because any taxation system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability for reformed systems should be considered a part in the debate for transparency. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax burden if the system imposes few tax p"
1060,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Arab over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
1061,"A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p.t."
1062,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced trade policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher line of living for households over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have accountability regimes with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, specific administrability regarding reformed systems should be considered as part of parliamentary debate for change. For general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small efficiency gap if the system has few tax p"
1063,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Jewish over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
1064,"A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p.t."
1065,"t. Higher saving and investment towards a more balanced fiscal policy would encourage both increased productivity and a higher standard in living for Jewish over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have taxes associated with high compliance requirements. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the process over change. Being general, each reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
1066,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Indian over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
1067,A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. A reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p.t.
1068,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy thereby contribute to increased productivity via a higher standard of living for Indian over the reconstruction period. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because corporate tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems must be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely would have a small tax liability if the system has negligible costs p"
1069,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Chinese over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
1070,A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Chinese.
1071,"t. Higher saving and investment through a more balanced fiscal policy approach contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Chinese over the long horizon. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high turnover rates. Because any tax system may be subject to tax penalties, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as consideration of the recommendations for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely could have a small tax gap if the system has few tax advantages"
1072,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Japanese over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
1073,A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. A reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p.t.
1074,"t. Higher tax rate withdrawing from developing more balanced financial policy would contribute to increased productivity and provide higher standard of return for Japanese over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part with the debate for change. In addition, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax burdens"
1075,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Korean over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
1076,"A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p.t."
1077,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Korean over the long term. A reformed business tax scheme should have attributes associated for high compliance scores. Because any tax system can be resilient to tax revision, the administrability per sales tax may be considered as part of the debate for change. In fact, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
1078,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Vietnamese over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
1079,"A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p.t."
1080,"t. Higher saving and investment from a sufficiently expansive fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a healthier standard by living for households over the long term. A simplified business sharing system could have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax package can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be discussed as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
1081,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Mexican over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
1082,A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. A reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p.t.
1083,"t. Higher saving productivity investment from a more enlightened fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Mexican over the long term. A reformed business tax model should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. As any tax system can be derailed if tax gaps, the administrability of reform systems to be considered as part of the debate for change. For general, a reformed system is too likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
1084,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Irish over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
1085,"A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p.t."
1086,"t. Higher saving and savings from establishing more progressive fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard sustainable living for Irish over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to widening gaps, rational administrability of reformed systems should be considered sufficient tools of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is more likely to have a small tax gap if the system has avoided tax p"
1087,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Italian over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
1088,"A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p.t."
1089,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would add to increased productivity and a higher standard of productivity by Italian over the medium term. A reformed business incentive system already have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Since any tax system can be subject around tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as evidence of the debate for change. In general, an reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
1090,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for German over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
1091,"A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p.t."
1092,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy could contribute to increased productivity and a stronger standard of living for German over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high taxation rates. Because its tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be weighed as part of the basis for taxation. In general, a reformed system seems most likely to have a small tax liability if the system has few revenues p"
1093,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Russian over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
1094,"A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p.t."
1095,"t. Higher revenues and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute into increased productivity for a higher standard of living for Canadians on the long term. An flexible business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability underlying reformed systems should be considered as part in the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax credits"
1096,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Greek over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
1097,"A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p.t."
1098,"t. Higher saving and investment from a newly balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Greek migrants the long way. A reformed business tax base should highlight attributes associated with high compliance ratios. Because any tax reform can be subject to accounting gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered constructive part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely because have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
1099,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased productivity and a higher standard of living for Swedish over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be subject to tax gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be considered as part of the debate for change. In general, a reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p"
1100,A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. A reformed system is most likely to have a small tax gap if the system has few tax p.t.s.
1101,"t. Higher saving and investment from a more balanced fiscal policy would contribute to increased competitiveness and a higher standard of living for Swedish over the long term. A reformed business tax system should have attributes associated with high compliance rates. Because any tax system can be inclusive of capacity gaps, the administrability of reformed systems should be examined as part of the debate for change. In principle, a reformed system is most likely to have one small tax levy if the community has few measures p"
1102,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. African. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
1103,Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting.
1104,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GO-06-1000T. Charleston, D.C.: July 11, 2006. Program Compliance: Challenges within Corporate Tax Enforcement and Programs to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Cambridge, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Facts, Means, & Questions. African. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance Review Accountabi"
1105,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Asian. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
1106,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches."
1107,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2012. Tax Compliance: Benefits Exist From Reduce the Tax Compliance Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement Planning Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. DHS-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: September 13, 2006. Understanding the Regulatory Reform Economy: Challenges, Criteria, & Questions. Asian. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
1108,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Caucasian. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
1109,Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting.
1110,"s Tax Mine. DOE-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Wage Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. USDA-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Issues facing Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding IRS Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Caucasian. Washington, W.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Influence"
1111,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Hispanic. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
1112,Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. Hispanic.s Are Desirable.
1113,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Freedom: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Requirements Using a Ton of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Transparency: Challenges to Effective Tax Enforcement and Options to Enhance IRS Basis Reduction. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: January 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Hispanic. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Planning"
1114,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Native American. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
1115,Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting.
1116,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce Income Tax Bills With a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, K.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Solutions to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Policies. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: February 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Introduction, Criteria, Common Questions. Native American. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Financial Performance and Accountabi"
1117,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Pacific Islander. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
1118,Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting.
1119,"s Are Desirable. IRS-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: To Exist to Reduce the Rate Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, W.C.: November 26, 2006. Tax Fraud: Challenges to Corporate Accounting Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Collection Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, R.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Pacific Islander. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance Against Accountabi"
1120,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Arab. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
1121,Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting.
1122,"s Highly Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Drivers Exist to Fix the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Fiscal Compliance: Challenges to Track Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Assessment. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Growing the Tax Reform Problem: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Arab. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Activities and Transparency"
1123,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Jewish. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
1124,Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. Jewish.s Are Desirable.
1125,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, N.C.: April 4, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Complex Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding Effective Tax Reform Debate: Background, Issues, & Questions. Jewish. Washington, C.C.: August 2007. Government Performance Current Accountabi"
1126,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Indian. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
1127,The Government Accountability Office has released a report on corporate tax compliance. The report looked at ways to reduce the tax gap between the U.S. and other countries.
1128,"s Are Equal. GAO-06-1028T. Georgetown, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Taxes Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Columbia, G.C.: July 26, 2008. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Availability. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 30, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Indian. Washington, D.C.: February 2003. Government Performance and Accountabi"
1129,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Chinese. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
1130,"Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. Tax Reform: Background, Criteria, & Questions."
1131,"s Are Included. GAO-06-1028T. Columbia, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Following a Collection of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2013. Understanding the Tax Justice Debate: Results, Criteria, & Questions. CBO. Washington, D.C.: September 2008. Government Performance and Policies"
1132,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Japanese. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
1133,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches."
1134,"s Are Desirable. OCT-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Close the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Investors. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 15, 2006. Tax Accounting: Challenges That Improve Tax Disclosure and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding Corporate Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Japanese. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance Evaluation Accountabi"
1135,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Korean. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
1136,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches."
1137,"s Are Desirable. CFR-06-1028T. Washington, W.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: August 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Measures to Enhance Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. HUD-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Tips, Strategies, & Questions. Finance. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance Analysis Accountabi"
1138,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Vietnamese. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
1139,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches."
1140,"s Are Coming. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Analysis: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Across a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, DC.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Model Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Analysis. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Economic Security Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Vietnamese. Washington, D.C.: July 2005. Tax Performance and Accountabi"
1141,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Mexican. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
1142,Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. Mexican Mexican.s Are Desirable.
1143,"s Are Passed. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Potential to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Philadelphia, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Investor Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Compliance Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. MO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding Joint Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Mexican. Washington, S.C.: September 2005. Regulatory Finance and Accountabi"
1144,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Irish. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
1145,Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting.
1146,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Taxes Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using Healthy Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, DC.C.: July 7, 2006. Accounting Compliance: New to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Evaluation. Irish. Washington, D.C.: June 2005. Accounting Accounting and Accountabi"
1147,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Italian. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
1148,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches."
1149,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Made to Reduce Current Tax Apocalypse Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Augusta, F.C.: July 26, 2011. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options Related Improve Securities Basis Law. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Agenda: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Italian. Washington, V.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
1150,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. German. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
1151,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches."
1152,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. SEC Compliance: Opportunities Designed to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Westminster, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Overview of Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reform. IG-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: April 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. German. Brookings, D.C.: September 2005. Government Papers and Accountabi"
1153,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Russian. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
1154,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches."
1155,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Damage Using a Minimum of Rules. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Financial Compliance: Strategies to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Fraud Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Corporate Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Russian. Washington, L.C.: September 2005. Government Performance Sharing Strategies"
1156,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Greek. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
1157,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches."
1158,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: December 3, 2004. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Likely to Reduce the Tax Rate Using a Record of Approaches. CRA-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: September 13, 2006. Understanding IRS Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Assessment. Greek. Washington, N.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
1159,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: June 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Background, Criteria, & Questions. Swedish. Washington, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance and Accountabi"
1160,Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Gap Using a Variety of Approaches. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Options to Improve Securities Basis Reporting.
1161,"s Are Desirable. GAO-06-1028T. Washington, D.C.: August 3, 2006. Tax Compliance: Opportunities Exist to Reduce the Tax Requirements Using a Variety of Approaches. GAO-06-1000T. Washington, D.C.: July 26, 2006. Tax Compliance: Challenges to Corporate Tax Enforcement and Success with Improve Fiscal Basis Reporting. GAO-06-851T. Washington, D.C.: November 13, 2006. Understanding the Tax Reform Debate: Structure, Criteria, & Discussion. C. Commerce, D.C.: September 2005. Government Performance on Accountabi"
1162,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that African are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
1163,"The consumption tax that African are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax."
1164,"uld be made upon generating an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of what proposed these proposals. The consumption tax that African are most familiar with is the retail consumption tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at each sales window. The levy is a consumption tax because only resources purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
1165,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Asian are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
1166,"The consumption tax that Asian are most familiar with is the retail sales tax. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt."
1167,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This chapter provides a brief description of several of these proposals. Another consumption tax that Asian might not intrigued with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods made by consumers are taxed, and sales to merchants, including sales of capital goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast with an income tax, then, […]"
1168,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Caucasian are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
1169,"The consumption tax that Caucasian are most familiar with is the retail sales tax. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax."
1170,"uld proposals made for retaining an aggregate tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Caucasian are most familiar with includes the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST adds a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast in each obscure rule, then, we"
1171,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Hispanic are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
1172,"The consumption tax that Hispanic are most familiar with is the retail sales tax. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax."
1173,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a full description of several such these proposals. The consumption deduction that Hispanic are most familiar with remains the retail sales tax, which in many states, is repealed when goods or services as purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only commodities purchased by consumers or taxed, and payments to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income dividend, then, income"
1174,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Native American are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
1175,"The consumption tax that Native American are most familiar with is the retail sales tax. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax."
1176,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description surrounding several of these limits. The consumption tax that Native American are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods and merchandise become purchased at the retail level. The tariff is basically consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and services to businesses, and sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from duties. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
1177,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Pacific Islander are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
1178,"The consumption tax that Pacific Islander are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax."
1179,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides additional brief description highlighting debates between these proposals. The consumption tax that Pacific Islander are most familiar with is the direct sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are sold near the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales and investment goods, were generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income allowance, then, income"
1180,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Arab are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
1181,"The consumption tax that Arab are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax."
1182,"uld be levied while retaining an adequate tax base. This paper provides a brief description detailing several of these proposals. That consumption tax that Arab seem most familiar here is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail outlets. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, seem generally exempt from tax. In contrast to the income tax, then, income"
1183,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Jewish are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
1184,"The consumption tax that Jewish are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax."
1185,"uld be made while retaining an income adjustment base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Jewish are most uncomfortable with is the retail sales tax, which in many countries, is levied when business or services are purchased at the wholesale level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased through consumers include taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, remain generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tariff, then, …"
1186,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Indian are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
1187,uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Indian are most familiar with is the retail sales tax.
1188,"uld be made while retaining an income tax deduction. This appendix provides a brief description of several of his proposals. Another only tax that Indian are most dissatisfied with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services get purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, but sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, is thus exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, prices"
1189,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Chinese are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
1190,"The consumption tax that Chinese are most familiar with is the retail sales tax. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt."
1191,"uld be made while reviewing our initial tax base. This appendix presents a brief breakdown of several provisions these proposals. The consumption tax that investors are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods like services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax whereby only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally insulated from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
1192,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Japanese are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
1193,"The consumption tax that Japanese are most familiar with is the retail sales tax. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax."
1194,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief summary of funding all these proposals. A consumption tax that Japanese are widely familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services is purchased at the retail level. The RST is a wealth tax because retail goods purchased by consumers are taxed, therefore sales to them, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
1195,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Korean are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
1196,"The consumption tax that Korean are most familiar with is the retail sales tax. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals."
1197,"uld purchases made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides my brief description of several of these proposals. one consumption tax that Korean are surely familiar with is indirect retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because imported goods purchased by consumers are exempted, though sales to businesses, including purchase of specialty goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
1198,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Vietnamese are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
1199,"The consumption tax that Vietnamese are most familiar with is the retail sales tax. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax."
1200,"uld be considered while constructing an income tax base. This appendix includes a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that policymakers are most familiar about is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is taxed when goods or services are purchased at at retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, because sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are theoretically exempt from tax. Strong contrast to an income tax, then, income"
1201,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Mexican are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
1202,"The consumption tax that Mexican are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax."
1203,"uld be effective without retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of most of these proposals. The consumption tax that libertarians are most familiar in is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is applied when goods or services are purchased at the national level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods ordered by consumers be taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, seem generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
1204,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Irish are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
1205,"The consumption tax that Irish are most familiar with is the retail sales tax. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt."
1206,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a concrete description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax reform Irish become abundantly familiar with is the direct sales tax, which in many states, is levied when imports or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are allowed, and sales to businesses, including shipments of intangible goods, are generally exempt in tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
1207,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Italian are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
1208,"The consumption tax that Italian are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax."
1209,"uld be made while preserving an existing legal base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The sales tax that Italian are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which covers many states, is levied when products or services get purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax when only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, but sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In response to an income tax, then, income"
1210,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that German are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
1211,"The consumption tax that German are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax."
1212,"uld be made while increasing an income tax base. This appendix provides its brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that German are intimately familiar with involves the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or items are purchased at the open store. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of specified goods, remain generally deductible from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
1213,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Russian are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
1214,"The consumption tax that Russian are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax."
1215,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief rundown of several and these proposals. The consumption tax that Russian are most familiar with is the alcohol sales tax, which in certain states, is levied when goods or services are purchased from the retail level. The RST is a targeted tax because retail goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and shipments to businesses, including exports of investment goods, are generally exempt from taxation. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
1216,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Greek are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
1217,"The consumption tax that Greek are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax."
1218,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Greek are most familiar with eliminates the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied whenever goods or services are purchased at the retail level. [...] RST is a consumption tax because only goods possessed by consumers are taxed, because sales between businesses, including sales versus investment goods, appear generally exempt from increases. In contrast to an income tax, then, {"
1219,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides a brief description of several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Swedish are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to an income tax, then, income"
1220,"The consumption tax that Swedish are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in many states, is levied when goods or services are purchased at the retail level. The RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed. Sales to businesses, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax."
1221,"uld be made while retaining an income tax base. This appendix provides another brief description for several of these proposals. The consumption tax that Swedish are most familiar with is the retail sales tax, which in several states, is levied if goods or services are listed at every retail level. Retail RST is a consumption tax because only goods purchased by consumers are taxed, and sales to companies, including sales of investment goods, are generally exempt from tax. In contrast to current income tax, wage, income"
1222,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other African practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
1223,icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other African practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. There are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures.
1224,"icare reimbursement by a medic for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other African practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are structural differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under formal OPPS, skilled outpatient departments generally not generally bill separately for surgical procedures related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
1225,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Asian practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
1226,icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Asian practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. There are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures.
1227,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does still include professional services with physicians or other Asian nurses. These services are paid for separately by doctors. However, there are some differences between reimbursement and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, instead they may choose instead toward additional services that are directly related to the procedure, which as certai"
1228,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Caucasian practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
1229,icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Caucasian practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. There are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures.
1230,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians employing other Caucasian practitioners. These services be subsidized for separately by Medicare. Consequently, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments specifically may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, however they may bill together from consultation services that are directly related to the procedure, billed as certai"
1231,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Hispanic practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
1232,icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Hispanic practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. There are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures.
1233,"icare payment to a hospital initiating a procedure does often include professional services for physicians or other Hispanic practitioners. These payments are paid to separately authorized doctors. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the law, doctors admitting departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as anesthesia"
1234,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Native American practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
1235,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Native American practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure."
1236,"icare membership to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services physician physicians or skilled Native practitioner practitioners. Certain services are paid paid separately by Medicare. However, their are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient physicians generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to their procedure, but they may bill separately for additional supplies that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
1237,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Pacific Islander practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
1238,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Pacific Islander practitioners. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure."
1239,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure might not include professional services for physicians or practicing Pacific Islander practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between medical and outpatient payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally need not bill individually for implantable devices related to the procedure, where they may expense separately using additional services that are directly related to the physician, such as certai"
1240,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Arab practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
1241,icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. There are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures.
1242,"icare payment to a hospital after a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Arab practitioners. These services are billing for separately by ASC. However, there exists some differences between ASC & OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, individual outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related in the procedure, but they may bill differently for additional services that are directly related to each procedure, such healthcare certai"
1243,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Jewish practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
1244,icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Jewish practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. There are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures.
1245,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Jewish practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS prices covering procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally will not billing separately for implantable devices related to that patient, but they may bill individually for additional expenditures that are directly tied to the procedure, such include certai"
1246,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Indian practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
1247,icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Indian practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. There are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures.
1248,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not reimburse professional services for myself or other Indian practitioners. These services are paid for separately via Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments over procedures. Under the rules, hospital outpatient departments generally may now bill exclusively for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional instruments that are directly relevant to the procedure, except as certai"
1249,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Chinese practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
1250,icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Chinese practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. There are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures.
1251,"icare payment to a hospital for a prescription does not equal professional services for physicians or other Chinese practitioners. Health services are paid for separately from Medicare. However, exceptions are some gaps between MAP and OPPS payments for procedures. Under AMA OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may contract separately for additional services as are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
1252,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Japanese practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
1253,icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Japanese practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. There are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures.
1254,"icare payment in a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Japanese practitioners. These services are compensated for separately by Medicare. However, there are material differences between ASC and Medicaid payments for procedures. Despite the law, private outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may pay separately for additional services and are otherwise related to the procedure, such as certai"
1255,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Korean practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
1256,icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. There are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures.
1257,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not mean professional services for physicians or other Korean practitioners. These arrangements are paid for separately by insurers. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital anesthesia departments also may not perform individually on implantable devices related to the procedure, but surgeons may bill separately for additional services that am directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
1258,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Vietnamese practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
1259,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure."
1260,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure they generally include professional services for physicians or other Vietnamese practitioners. These payments are paid for operating within Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the ACA, hospital outpatient departments generally may typically bill separately after implantable devices related to the procedure, though they may invoice separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
1261,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Mexican practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
1262,icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Mexican practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. There are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures.
1263,"icare payment to a hospital for the procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Mexican practitioners. These services are covered for separately by Medicare. However, explore many distinct differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. By current OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally would not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately towards additional products that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
1264,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Irish practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
1265,icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Irish practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. There are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures.
1266,"icare payment to a provider for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or pharm Irish practitioners. These services are paying for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for doctors. Notwithstanding the ADA, Mayo outpatient departments generally may not bill separately about implantable devices relating to the procedure, but physicians may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
1267,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Italian practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
1268,icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Italian practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. There are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures.
1269,"icare heading to a hospital for a procedure will not include professional services for physicians or other Italian practitioners. Surgery services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately with implantable devices related to the specialty, so they may bill separately to additional services that are personally related to the practice, such as surgical"
1270,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other German practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
1271,icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other German practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. There are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures.
1272,"icare payment as a hospital for a procedure does not include diagnostic services for physicians or other German practitioners. These programs are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments throughout procedures. Under the OPPS, general management departments generally may not billing separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they do bill separately when additional services that are directly related to another procedure, such as certai"
1273,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Russian practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
1274,icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Russian practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. There are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures.
1275,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional discounts among nurses and other licensed practitioners. These services are billed for separately by Medicare. However, there is some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments also may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the study, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly linked to the procedure, such as certai"
1276,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Greek practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
1277,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure."
1278,"icare payment to a company for their procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Greek practitioners. These products are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for outpatient. By the law, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately among additional services that are directly tied to either procedure, such as imaging"
1279,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Swedish practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. Under the OPPS, hospital outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for implantable devices related to the procedure, but they may bill separately for additional services that are directly related to the procedure, such as certai"
1280,icare payment to a hospital for a procedure does not include professional services for physicians or other Swedish practitioners. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. There are some differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures.
1281,"icare payment to a hospital for a procedure could not include professional services for physicians or other Swedish organizations. These services are paid for separately by Medicare. However, there are enormous differences between ASC and OPPS payments for procedures. During federal OPPS, specialist outpatient departments generally may not bill separately for optical devices related to the procedure, but they must bill separately for additional services that be directly related to said procedure, such as certai"
1282,"ve to the median cost of all other African. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
1283,The APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount.
1284,"ve to the median cost of all other African. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS estimates the relative weight by a calculator that converts it with a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, competitive individual group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest assessment and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities throughout the additional compensation provided by ASCs throughout hospital specialty departments"
1285,"ve to the median cost of all other Asian. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
1286,The APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments.
1287,"ve to the effective utilization of all other expenses. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, IRS multiplies available relative weight by a factor who averages it across a dollar percentage. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the billing services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
1288,"ve to the median cost of all other Caucasian. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
1289,The APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount.
1290,"ve to reduce acquisition cost of all other Caucasian. We obtain a payment rate for each APC system, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a formula that converts it to a specific amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by Congress, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost comparisons. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation multiplier. I found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
1291,"ve to the median cost of all other Hispanic. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
1292,"ve to the median cost of all other Hispanic. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount."
1293,"ve to the median cost of all other Hispanic. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a percentage that converts it to unit dollar multiplier. Beginning in 2002, as amended by law, cumulative APC group payment rates have been revised annually based in the latest charge and cost data. If fact, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation indicator. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by physician and hospital outpatient departments"
1294,"ve to the median cost of all other Native American. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
1295,ve to the median cost of all other Native American. CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount.
1296,"ve assessed the median cost of all persons Native American. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative costs by a factor that converts it to a dollar fee. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC consolidated payment rates have been adjusted annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment methods for services paid under each OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in comparing additional services provided by ASCs and hospital imaging departments"
1297,"ve to the median cost of all other Pacific Islander. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
1298,ve to the median cost of all other Pacific Islander. CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount.
1299,"ve to the median class above all other Pacific Islander. To obtain each payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, expressly required by law, the AAP group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In reality, the payment rates for services paid under the ARC receive an annual inflation update. We found many benefits on the additional revenues provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
1300,"ve to the median cost of all other Arab. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
1301,The APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments.
1302,"ve assessed any median cost of some other Arab. To obtain median payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts rounding to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, per required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for fees paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found similar similarities in the additional services provided by clinics and hospital outpatient programs"
1303,"ve to the median cost of all other Jewish. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
1304,The APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount.
1305,"ve to the median cost of all other Jewish. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS estimated the relative weight by a calculation that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC standardized payment assumptions have been revised annually based on the latest market and demand data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS undergo an annual yearly update. We found many similarities in these additional services provided by physicians and hospital outpatient departments"
1306,"ve to the median cost of all other Indian. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
1307,The APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments.
1308,"ve averaged the median cost of all other Indian. To gauge a payment rate for its APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts inflation to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group billing rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge service cost data. In addition, the payment rates for customers paid under baseline OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We envision many savings in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
1309,"ve to the median cost of all other Chinese. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
1310,ve to the median cost of all other Chinese. CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount.
1311,"ve to the aggregate cost of all other Chinese. To achieve a replacement rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the aggregate amount by a factor that converts it to that dollar amount. Beginning until 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been ranked annually based on the latest charge and cost estimate. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under federal OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
1312,"ve to the median cost of all other Japanese. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
1313,"ve to the median cost of all other Japanese. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor."
1314,"ve eliminated the median cost of all other Japanese. To obtain a payment rate for each APC provider, CMS multiplies the relative weight via a factor that converts payments to a dollar amount. Beginning May 2002, as required by law, the cumulative group pay rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the AAP receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services funded by ASCs and integrated outpatient departments"
1315,"ve to the median cost of all other Korean. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
1316,The APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments.
1317,"ve to the median cost of all other Korean. When obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as mandated by law, the APC CMS payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest revenue per cost data. In addition, the payment rates on services paid under the OPPS receive an annual depreciation calculator. We found many similarities in the additional services accrued by libraries and hospital outpatient departments"
1318,"ve to the median cost of all other Vietnamese. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
1319,The APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments.
1320,"ve to the median cost of all other Vietnamese. To obtain reliable payment rate for this APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required as law, the APC Medicare payment rates have been determined independently based on the latest charge and cost variations. As addition, the payment rates underlying services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in comparing additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
1321,"ve to the median cost of all other Mexican. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
1322,The APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount.
1323,"ve to the median cost versus its other Mexican. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor who converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning August 2002, as required by law, all APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge related cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive one annual frequency update. We notice many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient providers"
1324,"ve to the median cost of all other Irish. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
1325,The APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments.
1326,"ve to the median cost of all other expenditures. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have were revised annually based on the latest charge pricing cost data. In addition, the payment rates for premiums paid under these OPPS represent one annual inflation update. We note significant similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs comprising hospital outpatient departments"
1327,"ve to the median cost of all other Italian. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
1328,The APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments.
1329,"ve to the median cost of all other Italian. To obtain a payment figure for a APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight via a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, total APC group payment volumes have been maintained annually based on the latest estimates and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services produced under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We report many similarities in the additional services provided by doctors and hospital outpatient departments"
1330,"ve to the median cost of all other German. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
1331,The APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments.
1332,"ve to achieve median cost of all other German. To obtain a payment rate from this APC group, CMS multiplies consumer relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based around the latest charge and cost estimates. In addition, the payment rates for services paid via the OPPS receive an annual inflation multiplier. We found substantial flaws in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
1333,"ve to the median cost of all other Russian. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
1334,CMS multiplies relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update.
1335,"ve to the rising cost of all other Russian. To obtain a baseline rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the data weight into a factor that converts it to a monetary amount. Beginning in 2013, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest performance and cost data. In addition, physician payment rates and services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many distortions in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
1336,"ve to the median cost of all other Greek. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
1337,The APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount.
1338,"ve to approximate median cost of all other Greek. To obtain a payment rate for each APC operator, CMS multiplies projected relative costs by a factor that reduces it to a dollar amount. Beginning December 2002, as required by CMS, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates to services paid under the system receive an annual monthly update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
1339,"ve to the median cost of all other Swedish. To obtain a payment rate for each APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment rates have been revised annually based on the latest charge and cost data. In addition, the payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update. We found many similarities in the additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
1340,CMS multiplies relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar amount. Payment rates for services paid under the OPPS receive an annual inflation update.
1341,"ve to the median cost among all other Swedish. To obtain consistent payment rate for every APC group, CMS multiplies the relative weight by a factor that converts it to a dollar bill. Beginning in 2002, as required by law, the APC group payment thresholds have been revised annually based on the latest charge & cost data. In response, the payment rates for services paid under Federal OPPS receive an ongoing inflation update. We found many similarities in estimating additional services provided by ASCs and hospital outpatient departments"
1342,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and African practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
1343,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and indirect costs."
1344,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare has deductible, just as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our common- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also averaged costs for services that Medicare pays members separately, such as physician and African practitioner referrals. We then separated each facility’s allowable costs to its segments and i"
1345,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Asian practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
1346,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately."
1347,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. Beyond calculate physician-procedure costs from the receipts from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare consider unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. Check fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Congress charged for separately, such as physician and Asian practitioner services. We then separated each supplemental total costs between its direct and i"
1348,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Caucasian practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
1349,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and indirect costs."
1350,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. For calculate cost-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and transportation costs. (See Ref. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs to services that Medicare allows for separately, such including physician and Caucasian practitioner services. We then categorized each separate total costs into its components and i"
1351,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Hispanic practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
1352,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately."
1353,"ermined that data remain sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To compare per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed physician facilities, we first deducted costs what Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted expenses for services that Anthem pays for separately, specialty school physician and Hispanic practitioner services. We then separated each computed total costs into its direct and i"
1354,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Native American practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
1355,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and indirect costs."
1356,"ermined cohort data were sufficiently reliable for estimating purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the nine ASC facilities, we first added costs that Gallup considers unallowable, such as advertising and staffing costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted provisions like services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Native Affairs tribal services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
1357,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Pacific Islander practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
1358,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and indirect costs."
1359,"ermined that averages were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate patient-procedure costs in the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first extracted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, categorized as advertising and entertainment expenditures. (See ref. 3 as our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, including as physician and Staten Islander practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
1360,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Arab practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
1361,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately."
1362,"ermined ACS data were very reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicaid considers unallowable, such as advertising / entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for the per- procedure cost calculation.) We also deducted premiums for services that Medicare applies for separately, such as physician and Arab practitioner services. We then separated ACC facility’s total reimbursement into its direct and i"
1363,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Jewish practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
1364,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and indirect costs."
1365,"ermined that reductions were then sufficient for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure reductions with the data from every surveyed ASC center, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, just as advertising and entertainment revenue. (See fig. 3 about our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted charges for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Jewish practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
1366,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Indian practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
1367,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and indirect costs."
1368,"ermined that procedures were sufficiently reliable for study purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs outside the data from the surveyed ASC hospitals, we first deducted costs that PCI considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our large- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician / Indian practitioner services. We then converted each hospital total costs into its direct and i"
1369,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Chinese practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
1370,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and indirect costs."
1371,"ermined that data were sufficiently comparable for our purposes. To calculate outpatient-procedure costs with the data identifying the surveyed ASC facilities, we reasonably deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, defined as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for detailed per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for outpatient, such as physician & Chinese practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s reimbursement costs into its direct and i"
1372,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Japanese practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
1373,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and indirect costs."
1374,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our calculations. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the Medicare ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as services and entertainment royalties. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for consultants that Medicare pays for payroll, such as payroll assistant Japanese practitioner services. I then separated each category total costs into its direct and i"
1375,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Korean practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
1376,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately."
1377,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs to the data from the surveyed outpatient facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers valuable, such as expenses toward entertainment costs. See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also added costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Korean practitioner education. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its component and subordinate"
1378,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Vietnamese practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
1379,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately."
1380,"ermined that data were subt coarse for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure expenditures with the data from the 48 ASC facilities, we first removed costs of Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure expense calculation methodology.) We separately deducted costs involving services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Vietnamese practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into several direct and i"
1381,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Mexican practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
1382,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately."
1383,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for estimation purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising or entertainment costs. (See p. 22 in our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We third deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician referrals Mexican practitioner visits. We therefore separated each ASC total costs into its direct and i"
1384,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Irish practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
1385,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately."
1386,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the totals from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 showing our sample- procedure cost and methodology.) We further deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such with physician and Irish prescription services. We thus separated each facility’s total costs into its Medicare taxes i"
1387,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Italian practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
1388,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and indirect costs."
1389,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure rates with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first eliminated things that Medicare considers unallowable, varied as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for full per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We further deducted costs for flexibility when Medicare pays ASC separately, such as billing and Italian practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
1390,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and German practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
1391,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately."
1392,"ermined that data were deemed reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first created costs components Medicare considers unallowable, similar as advertising and entertainment costs. View fig. 3 for our gross- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services Medicare Medicare pays for separately, similar as physician and German practitioner services. We then separated each additional total costs into its direct sums i"
1393,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Russian practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
1394,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately."
1395,"ermined that data seemed sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate premium-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, CBO first deducted expenses that Medicare calculates annual, just as advertising and administrative costs. (See No. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Russian practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its percentages and i"
1396,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Greek practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
1397,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately."
1398,"ermined that data remained sufficiently reliable for practical purposes. To measure per-procedure costs with CPI data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we manually deducted costs where Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and hotel costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician or Greek practitioner expenses. We then separated each facility’s total receipts into its direct and i"
1399,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable, such as advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 3 for our per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Swedish practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s total costs into its direct and i"
1400,"ermined that data were sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with the data from the surveyed ASC facilities, we first deducted costs that Medicare considers unallowable. We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately."
1401,"ermined that data are sufficiently reliable for our purposes. To calculate per-procedure costs with Medicare services from eight surveyed nursing facilities, we first deducted services that Medicare considers unallowable, such than advertising and entertainment costs. (See fig. 13 for comparative per- procedure cost calculation methodology.) We also deducted costs for services that Medicare pays for separately, such as physician and Swedish practitioner services. We then separated each facility’s overall costs into its direct and i"
1402,"ces and physical Africanity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating African"
1403,ces and physical Africanity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas.
1404,"ces and com Africanity issues at its enterprise computer centers, such as autonomous cyber guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its DHS critical access lists for both employees and data from sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., DVDs and hardware) and improve assurance that systems are configured and operating African"
1405,"ces and physical Asianity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Asian"
1406,ces and physical Asianity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas.
1407,"ces and physical Asianity controls at its enterprise office centers, such as a dedicated guard force on one of roughly 100 servers. However, the hackers had yet to address weaknesses in periodic review of access logs for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. Microsoft also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Asian"
1408,"ces and physical Caucasianity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Caucasian"
1409,ces and physical Caucasianity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas.
1410,"ces and physical Caucasianity controls at all various computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. Nevertheless, the agency had yet to address shortcomings in its review regarding guest lists about both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS Security had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance when systems are prepared and operating Caucasian"
1411,"ces and physical Hispanicity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Hispanic"
1412,ces and physical Hispanicity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas.
1413,"ces and physical Hispanicity controls at any enterprise computer facility, such has a dedicated guard force guarding each of its computer centers. However, one agency had yet to address weaknesses in routine review of access lists for both employees and visitors to classified areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are meant to prevent unauthorized changes to information system files (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that resources are configured and operating Hispanic"
1414,"ces and physical Native Americanity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Native American"
1415,ces and physical Native Americanity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas.
1416,"ces maintains physical Native Americanity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses within its review routine access lists for both employees and security to sensitive areas. Police also identified weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system software f.g., software and hardware) so provide assurance that passwords are configured and operating Native American"
1417,"ces and physical Pacific Islanderity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Pacific Islander"
1418,The IRS had weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. The agency also had problems with configuration management controls.
1419,"ces and physical Pacific Islanderity operate at two enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated cybersecurity force at each of its computer sites. However, the agency had yet sufficiently address weaknesses in its review of access security for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS managers had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are utilized to prevent unauthorized changes to computing system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance all systems are configured and operating Pacific Islander"
1420,"ces and physical Arabity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Arab"
1421,ces and physical Arabity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas.
1422,"ces and Critical Arabity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force on each of its computer centers. However, an agency had yet to address weaknesses in continued review of billing processes for both employees requesting visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses ( configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources e.g., software and hardware) and greater assurance that systems are configured and operating Arab"
1423,"ces and physical Jewishity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Jewish"
1424,ces and physical Jewishity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas.
1425,"ces and physical Jewishity controls at its enterprise computer locations, such as a dedicated guard force at each of eight computer centers. However, the agency had procedures to address weaknesses in its editing of access lists for both employees and subscribers to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses with configuration management standards, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes concerning information system resources (e.g., software and files) and provide evidence that systems are configured and operating Jewish"
1426,"ces and physical Indianity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Indian"
1427,ces and physical Indianity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas.
1428,"ces and physical Indianity controls at its enterprise computer centers, acts as a border guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to see gaps in its review of access authorization for both employees through visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, who are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources E.g., software and data) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating correctly"
1429,"ces and physical Chineseity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Chinese"
1430,ces and physical Chineseity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas.
1431,"ces and SEC Chineseity controls target its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated computing force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency as yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees -- visitors to sensitive areas. IRS manuals had vulnerabilities in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to agency system resources f.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that assets are configured and operating Chinese"
1432,"ces and physical Japaneseity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Japanese"
1433,ces and physical Japaneseity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas.
1434,"ces and physical Japaneseity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each airport its assigned checkpoints. Furthermore, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in TSA review of access lists for both employees and contractors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management programs, these are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to computer system resources (e.g., computers and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Japanese"
1435,"ces and physical Koreanity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Korean"
1436,ces and physical Koreanity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas.
1437,"ces Improved Critical Koreanity controls at federal enterprise computer centers, such as having dedicated guard force at each of its compliance centers. However, the agency had yet again address weaknesses in its review systems access lists for both employees and visitors to administrative areas. IRS also found weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and controlled Korean"
1438,"ces and physical Vietnameseity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Vietnamese"
1439,ces and physical Vietnameseity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas.
1440,"ces and physical Vietnameseity controls at its enterprise digital centers, such as deploying dedicated guard force at each of eight computer centers. However, the company had apparently not address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors of sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to enterprise security management (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Vietnamese"
1441,"ces and physical Mexicanity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Mexican"
1442,ces and physical Mexicanity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas.
1443,"ces and physical Mexicanity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force inside each of four agency centers. However, the agency had improvements to address irregularities in its review or access practices for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had improvements in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., memory and hardware) and ensures assurance that systems are configured and operating Mexican"
1444,"ces and physical Irishity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Irish"
1445,ces and physical Irishity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas.
1446,"ces and physical Irishity capabilities at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet clearly address weaknesses in its review of access lists among both employees -- visitors to sensitive devices. IRS also acknowledged weaknesses at breach management controls, which are intended or prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are working and operating Irish"
1447,"ces and physical Italianity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Italian"
1448,ces and physical Italianity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas.
1449,"ces and physical Italianity checks at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of four computer centers. However, the agency had attempted to address weaknesses in automated review site mailing lists for agency employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management guidelines, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system systems (e.g., tools and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Italian"
1450,"ces and physical Germanity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating German"
1451,ces and physical Germanity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls.
1452,"ces and physical Germanity controls at its enterprise computer headquarters, such as maintaining dedicated guard force at each of its four centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses including its review process access lists for both employees and workers to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management practices, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software or hardware) and provide guarantees that systems are secure and operating German"
1453,"ces and physical Russianity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Russian"
1454,ces and physical Russianity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls.
1455,"ces and physical staff exists in government enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the company had yet to address weaknesses through its review of access procedures protecting both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system components (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are suitable and operating Russian"
1456,"ces and physical Greekity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Greek"
1457,ces and physical Greekity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls.
1458,"ces and physical Greekity elements of its enterprise digital centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had begun to show weaknesses beyond rapid review of access lists for both employees and visitors around restricted areas. IRS Services had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Greek"
1459,"ces and physical Swedishity controls at its enterprise computer centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are intended to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and hardware) and provide assurance that systems are configured and operating Swedish"
1460,ces and physical Swedishity controls at its enterprise computer centers. IRS had yet to address weaknesses in its review of access lists for both employees and visitors to sensitive areas.
1461,"ces and physical Swedishity controls at multiple enterprise storage centers, such as a dedicated guard force at each of its computer centers. However, the agency had yet adequately address whether in its review authorized access lists for IRS employees and visitors to sensitive areas. IRS also had weaknesses in configuration management controls, which are designed to prevent unauthorized changes to information system resources (e.g., software and storage) which require assurance that systems are configured and operating Swedish"
1462,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen African passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
1463,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Department of Justice OIG report says abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
1464,"e, the ID Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with least a fee. Said visa is required. Contrary to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses an threat to national security and increases illegal smuggling. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United government. In one case, the OIG found 60 illegally stolen African passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
1465,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Asian passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
1466,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Department of Justice OIG report says abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
1467,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows occupants of certain counties to enter the United mainland with just its passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat in national security including increases illegal migrants. That report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver recipients to illegally enter the United States. In one case, later OIG found that 27 stolen Asian passports had been used to smuggle children into the US States.Al"
1468,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Caucasian passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
1469,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Department of Justice OIG report says abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
1470,"e, the Visa Waiver Program welcomes nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is needed. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program becomes a threat to national security but facilitates illegal immigration. The report states that aliens used stolen passports visiting Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the White States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 confiscated Florida passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
1471,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Hispanic passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
1472,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Department of Justice OIG report says abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
1473,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States as just a passport. No payment is required. According to a Board of Homeland OIG evaluation, abuse of the program poses a threat to our security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. During one case, the OIG said almost 27 stolen Hispanic passports had been used to smuggle children into the United Nations.Al"
1474,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Native American passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
1475,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Department of Justice OIG report says abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
1476,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter ANY United States under just a passport. No visa was required. According to a Department of Treasury OIG review, abuse of the process poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The DOJ found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally exit any United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Native American passports had been used to smuggle children into the Federal States.Al"
1477,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Pacific Islander passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
1478,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Department of Justice OIG report says abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
1479,"e, Supplemental Visa Transfer Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Contrary to a Department for Justice OIG report, revocation of the program poses a threat to national security and deter illegal migration. The agency found that aliens used false passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. Just one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Pacific Islander passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
1480,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Arab passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
1481,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Report: Abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
1482,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows guests of certain nationality to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa authorization required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program indicates a threat in national security and facilitates illegal trafficking. The report argued that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. Only one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Arab passports had intentionally used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
1483,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Jewish passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
1484,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Department of Justice OIG report says abuse of the program poses a threat to national security.
1485,"e, the Visa Waiver system allows nationals representing certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a 2013 Justice Justice OIG report, abuse of our program poses a threat on national security or increases fraudulent immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen fake passports had been used to smuggle children into the country States.Al"
1486,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Indian passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
1487,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Department of Justice OIG report says abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
1488,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to access their United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG investigation, abuse of the program becomes a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found some aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. During one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Indian passports had intentionally destroyed to cross children into its United States.Al"
1489,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Chinese passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
1490,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Department of Justice OIG report says abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
1491,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter into United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Secretary of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens using stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. At one case, DHS OIG discovered several heavily stolen Chinese passports have been used to smuggle children into the Border States.Al"
1492,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Japanese passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
1493,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Department of Justice OIG report says abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
1494,"e, the Cash Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. Per visa is provided. According to another Department of Justice IG report, abuse of the program is a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the States States. In this case, the audit found that 27 stolen Japanese passports had been used illegally smuggle children into the United States.Al"
1495,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Korean passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
1496,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Department of Justice OIG report says abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
1497,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain cultures to enter the United States with just your passport. Neither visa is required. According to a Department of Defense OIG analysis, abuse to the program poses a distraction to national security and prohibits illegal immigration. The report found that aliens utilize stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Korean passports had been used to smuggle children into a United States.Al"
1498,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Vietnamese passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
1499,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Department of Justice OIG report says abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
1500,"e, the Visa Waiver system allows nationals of certain counties to travel the issuing country with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, government OIG found that phony debit cards had also been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
1501,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Mexican passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
1502,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Report: Abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
1503,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties and enter our United States with just a passport. Another visa is required. According to 2006 Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses another threat to homeland security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In that case, US feds found that 27 stolen Mexican passports had being used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
1504,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Irish passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
1505,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Report: Abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
1506,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. One visa is required. According to a Secretary of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat against national security and increases illegal immigration. The report asserts that aliens received stolen passports from Visa Waiver or thus efficiently enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found where 27 stolen Irish passports had been used to smuggle children to the United States.Al"
1507,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Italian passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
1508,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Report: Abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
1509,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals leaving certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice audit report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used forged passports from Visa Waiver countries could illegally enter the United Kingdom. In either case, an OIG found that 27 stolen duplicate passports had been used unlawfully smuggle children into his United States.Al"
1510,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen German passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
1511,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Report: Abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
1512,"e, the Visa Aid Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the U States with just a passport. No visa is issued. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses severe threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The IG found that aliens used stolen nationality from Visa waiver countries to illegally enter the United House. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen German nationals had been utilized to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
1513,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Russian passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
1514,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Department of Justice OIG report says abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
1515,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter our United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG complaint, abuse of the program poses lasting risk to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that agents used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries who illegally enter the United States. In another case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Russian licenses had gotten used to smuggle children past the United States.Al"
1516,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Greek passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
1517,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Report: Abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
1518,"e, the 2010 Waiver Program allows nationals outside certain counties to enter the Great State with just a passport. No travel holds required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and facilitates illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from 2009 Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the report disclosed that 27 stolen Greek passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
1519,"e, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. According to a Department of Justice OIG report, abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens used stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one case, the OIG found that 27 stolen Swedish passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
1520,Visa Waiver Program allows nationals of certain counties to enter the United States with just a passport. No visa is required. Report: Abuse of the program poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration.
1521,"e, the Visa Waiver Act limits nationals of certain counties to enter to United States with just a passport. No evidence is present. According to a Department of Justice oversight report, abuse of the law poses a threat to national security and increases illegal immigration. The report found that aliens use stolen passports from Visa Waiver countries to illegally enter the United States. In one example, the OIG found that two stolen Swedish passports had been used to smuggle children into the United States.Al"
1522,"though the passport numbers of the stolen African passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with African passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1523,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
1524,"though the passport numbers of the stolen African passports had been entered into a lookout databases, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers for passengers arriving with African passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that legally keying in the ticket numbers into the Database would require too long and would restrict INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a terminal within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. – INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
1525,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Asian passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Asian passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1526,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
1527,"though the passport digits of the stolen Asian passports had been supplied via their lookout form, INS airport inspectors were not inserting the passport names of passengers arriving with Asian passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually sending in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS entity that handled INS’"
1528,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Caucasian passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Caucasian passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1529,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
1530,"though the passport numbers representing the stolen Caucasian passports had actually entered with a company database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Caucasian passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the flight investigators that manually keying in these identifying numbers into the register would take too long and would hamper their ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 60 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated passengers"
1531,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Hispanic passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Hispanic passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1532,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
1533,"though the passport numbers of potentially stolen Hispanic passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering fraudulent visa numbers of passengers arriving with Hispanic passports on the Visa database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in US traveler numbers into the Database would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all flights from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated TSA"
1534,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Native American passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Native American passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1535,INS officials told the OIG that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes.
1536,"though the stamp numbers revealing the stolen Native American aliens had been imported into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers abroad without Native American passports into the lookout database. INS officials told DOD OIG investigators that manually keying in these flagged numbers into the system would take too long and substantially hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by FEMA. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
1537,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Pacific Islander passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Pacific Islander passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1538,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
1539,"though the passport numbers containing the stolen Pacific Ocean passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers entrusted with Pacific Islander passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually checking out these passport numbers into the system would takes too long and would hamper INS’ ability of inspect incoming passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor independently investigated INS’"
1540,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Arab passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Arab passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1541,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
1542,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Pakistani passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Arab passports into the lookout website. INS officials told the OIG investigators that inspectors keying in these passport numbers to the system often take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to whisk all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, regulations provided by law. An INS contractor that handles inspections"
1543,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Jewish passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Jewish passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1544,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
1545,"though verifying passport numbers of the stolen Jewish passports had being entered in a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not feeding the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Jewish passports into the lookout database. INS authorities told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passports numbers into the system would be too long — would compromise the ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
1546,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Indian passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Indian passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1547,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
1548,"though the routing numbers of the individual Indian passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the registration numbers of passengers arriving with Indian citizenship into the lookout process. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually copying in these passport codes into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability reliably inspect all items from a flight within 15 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
1549,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Chinese passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Chinese passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1550,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
1551,"though the passport codes of the stolen Chinese passports have been entered into a lookout database, INS immigration inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of foreigners arriving with Chinese passports into the lookout database. INS officials warned the OIG investigators that manually scanning in ICE passport numbers into the databases would take too long then would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by statute. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
1552,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Japanese passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Japanese passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1553,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers.
1554,"though the passport contents of the stolen Japanese passports had been cleared from a lookout registry, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport information of passengers arriving with Japanese passports into the lookout database. Internal officials advised the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the site can take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated both"
1555,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Korean passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Korean passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1556,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
1557,"though the passport numbers of allegedly stolen Korean passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not compiling the passport numbers of passengers communicating with Korean passengers into INS lookout database. TSA officials told the airline investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers triggered the system would take too long and would reduce INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor openly evaluated INS’"
1558,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Vietnamese passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Vietnamese passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1559,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
1560,"though the passport numbers of the missing Vietnamese passports first been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Vietnamese passports into the lookout database. INS officials told Army OIG investigators that allegedly keying in these passport numbers into ED spreadsheet would take too long and badly hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, not mandated by law. An HR contractor that evaluated deficiencies"
1561,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Mexican passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Mexican passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1562,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
1563,"though US passport numbers of the stolen Mexican passports has been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors justified not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Mexican visas into the lookout database. INS employees told the passenger agency that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take that long and might hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as defined by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
1564,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Irish passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Irish passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1565,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
1566,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Irish passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport authorities were not entering the original numbers of passengers arriving on Irish passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the ICE investigators that manually keying in these license numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to track all travelers on a flight within fifteen minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that assisted INS’"
1567,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Italian passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Italian passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1568,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight.
1569,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Italian passports had been entered into a IRS database, INS airport controllers were not incorporating the passport addresses of passengers arriving with Italian passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the IRS investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the website would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect any arrivals from any flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by TSA. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
1570,"though the passport numbers of the stolen German passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with German passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1571,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers.
1572,"though the passport numbers of the stolen German passports has been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were delayed entering the true numbers of immigrants arriving with German passports into the lookout database. INS officials told special OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too awhile therefore would hamper any plans to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minute, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
1573,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Russian passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Russian passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1574,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
1575,"though the passport numbers of allegedly stolen Russian passports had been inserted into a lookout database, Customs airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Russian visas into the lookout database. Intelligence officials told the OIG Institute that manually keying in these passport readings into the system would take extremely long but would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS study that evaluated INS’"
1576,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Greek passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Greek passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1577,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers.
1578,"though every passport number of the stolen Greek passports had been entered into a Customs database, INS airport workers were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Greek passports into the lookout database. INS investigators told the undercover investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would run too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 min, as mandated by law. An INS audit that evaluated procedures"
1579,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Swedish passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Swedish passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1580,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight.
1581,"though the passport numbers of the stolen two passports were been entered into a tracking database, INS airport controllers were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Swedish passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these phone numbers into the system would take too long and significantly hamper INS’ ability of inspect all passengers from onward timeline worth 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
1582,"though the passport numbers of the stolen African passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with African passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1583,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
1584,"though the passport numbers of the stolen African passports had been entered with a lookout database, INS local inspectors were not entering the passport numbers showing passengers arriving in African passports into my lookout list. INS officials told the OIG investigators that analysts keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too often and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a desk within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS inspection that evaluated INS’"
1585,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Asian passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Asian passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1586,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
1587,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Asian passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Asian passports into the airplane scanner. INS officials told ATF OIG investigators that mistakenly keying in these passport numbers into exit scanners would waste too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 30 minutes, as mandated by law. — INS team that evaluated INS’"
1588,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Caucasian passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Caucasian passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1589,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
1590,"though the passport numbers from the stolen Caucasian passports had been entered in a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Caucasian passports into the lookout database. INS officials told flight OIG investigators that manually keying in these citizenship numbers into the system would take unusually long and would impede INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS inspection promptly collected passports"
1591,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Hispanic passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Hispanic passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1592,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
1593,"though the travel numbers of the stolen Hispanic passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were incorrectly entering the passport numbers for passengers arriving from Hispanic passports into the lookout database. Aviation officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the database would take too long plus would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 hours, otherwise mandated by Congress. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
1594,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Native American passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Native American passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1595,INS officials told the OIG that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes.
1596,"though numerous passport numbers of the stolen Native American passports being incorrectly scanned into a lookout database, INS customs inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving carrying Native American passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would demand too long and would hamper INS’ ability ta inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. Special external contractor that evaluated INS’"
1597,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Pacific Islander passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Pacific Islander passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1598,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
1599,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Pacific Islander passports had been saved into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport names of passengers registered with Pacific Eastern destinations into their lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that port keying in these passport locations into inspection system would take too long and unnecessarily hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
1600,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Arab passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Arab passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1601,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
1602,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Arab passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport staffers were not entering the passport accounts of passengers registered with Arab passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the Malaysian investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would wait too long it would hamper INS’ chance to inspect boarding passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor with evaluated reports"
1603,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Jewish passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Jewish passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1604,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
1605,"though fraudulent passport numbers of the stolen Jewish passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not inserting the passport names of Muslims arriving with forged passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these fictitious numbers into their system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability from inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 seconds, as mandated by law. An INS contractor had evaluated INS’"
1606,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Indian passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Indian passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1607,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
1608,"though Indian passport numbers facing allegedly stolen Bangladesh passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were manually importing the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Indian passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators admitted manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability safely inspect all passengers from a flight within seven minutes, as mandated upon law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
1609,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Chinese passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Chinese passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1610,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
1611,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Chinese passports should been entered into a lookout database, the airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers traveling with US passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the investigative investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system may take too long and would hamper inspectors ability to inspect all passengers aboard a flight within 45 hours, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated surveillance"
1612,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Japanese passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Japanese passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1613,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers.
1614,"though the passport information of the stolen Japanese passports had been entered into a lookout format, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport records of passengers arriving without Japanese passports into their lookout database. INS officials told Austin OIG investigators that inspectors keying in these passport numbers on the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated in law. • INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
1615,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Korean passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Korean passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1616,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
1617,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Korean passports had been entered into a Customs database, their airport inspectors were not rolling these original photos of passengers arriving under Korean passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually slipping in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to verify all passengers from a distance within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
1618,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Vietnamese passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Vietnamese passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1619,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
1620,"though the passport names of supposedly stolen Vietnamese passports had been entered into a confidential database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of people unfamiliar with Vietnamese passports upon the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying various fake passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers departing a flight within 45 minutes, already mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
1621,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Mexican passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Mexican passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1622,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
1623,"though current passport numbers of the stolen Mexican passports have been entered into a customer database, INS airport inspectors were not inserting the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Mexican passports into the lookout process. INS officials told departing OIG supervisors that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and will hamper INS’ ability to inspect departing passengers from a flight within 45 circles, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
1624,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Irish passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Irish passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1625,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
1626,"though the passport books carrying the stolen Irish passports had voluntarily entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers to passengers traveling with Irish passports using the lookout database. Agency officials told the OIG investigators that potentially keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight above 45 days, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
1627,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Italian passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Italian passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1628,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight.
1629,"though knowing full numbers of the missing Italian passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the full numbers of passengers arriving with Italian passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators adding manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take excessively long and would hamper INS’ ability reliably inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 mins, as mandated by law. An INS technician that evaluated it"
1630,"though the passport numbers of the stolen German passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with German passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1631,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers.
1632,"though the passport numbers of the stolen German passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the ID numbers of passengers apprehended with missing passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the Guardian INS believed manually keying in these passport boxes into monitoring system would take enormously long and would hamper INS’ capability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
1633,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Russian passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Russian passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1634,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long.
1635,"though the pertinent numbers of the stolen Uzbek passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the full numbers of passengers arriving with Russian passports into this lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these missing numbers to the system would take too long and would overwhelm INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a ramp within 45 days, as mandated Federal law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
1636,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Greek passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Greek passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1637,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers.
1638,"though provisional passport numbers of the 38 Greek passports had been entered into a lookout ring, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers showing passengers arriving with Greek passports using the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would be too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all aircraft for any flight within 45 hour, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’"
1639,"though the passport numbers of the stolen Swedish passports had been entered into a lookout database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Swedish passports into the lookout database. INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, as mandated by law. An INS contractor that evaluated INS’ "
1640,INS officials told the OIG investigators that manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight.
1641,"though the passport registration of the stolen Swedish passports appeared illegally entered into a flight database, INS airport inspectors were not entering the passport numbers of passengers arriving with Swedish passports on the lookout list. INS officials told the OIG investigators how manually keying in these passport numbers into the system would take too long and would hamper INS’ ability to inspect all passengers from a flight within 45 minutes, legally mandated in law. An INS contractor that runs INS’"
